Dipak Misra, J. (for himself and Ashok Bhushan, J.)	None
The cold evening of Delhi on 16th December, 2012 could not have even remotely planted the feeling in the twentythree year old lady, a paramedical student, who had gone with her friend to watch a film at PVR Select City Walk Mall, Saket, that in the next few hours, the shattering cold night that was gradually stepping in would bring with it the devastating hour of darkness when she, alongwith her friend, would get into a bus at Munirka bus stand to be dropped at a particular place and possibly could not have imagined that she would be a prey to the savage lust of a gang of six, face brutal assault and become a playful thing that could be tossed around at their wild whim and her private parts would be ruptured to give vent to their pervert sexual appetite, unthinkable and sadistic pleasure.	None
What the victims had not conceived of, it all happened, as the chronology of events would unroll.	None
The attitude, perception, the beastial proclivity, inconceivable selfobsession and individual centralism of the six made the young lady to suffer immense trauma and, in the ultimate eventuate, the lifes park that moves the bodily frame got extinguished in spite of availing of all the possible treatment that the medical world could provide.	None
The death took place at a hospital in Singapore where she had been taken to with the hope that her life could be saved.	None
The friend of the girl survived in spite of being thrown outside the bus along with the girl and the attempt of the accusedappellants to run over them became futile as they, by their slight movement, could escape from being crushed under the bus, and the appellants left them thinking that they were no more alive.	None
Lying naked, as the clothes were removed from their bodies, they shouted for help and as good fortune would have it, the night patrolling vehicle, a motor cycle, arrived and the said man, Raj Kumar, PW72, gave the shirt to the boy and contacted the control room from which a Bolero patrol van came and they brought a bed sheet and tore it into two parts and gave a piece to each of the victims so that they could cover themselves and feel civil.	None
The PCR van took the victims to the Safdarjung Hospital where treatment commenced.	None
The present case is one where there can be no denial that the narrative is long, the investigation has been cautious and to bring home the charge, modern and progressive scientific methods have been adopted.	None
Mr. Siddharth Luthra, learned senior counsel for the respondentState, has made indefatigable endeavour to project that the investigation is flawless and exemplary and	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. M.L. Sharma and Mr. A.P. Singh, learned counsel for the appellants, have severely criticized it as faulty on many a score and that it is completely biased and Mr. Sanjay R. Hegde, learned senior counsel, the friend of the Court, in his own way, has highlighted that the investigation is not only flawed but also unreliable which deserves chastisement and warrants rejection.	Arguments of Petitioner
Many facets of the investigation that pertain to recording of dying declaration, recording of statements of witnesses under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), the medical examination, holding of the test identification parade, the manner and method of search and seizure and the procedure of arrest have been seriously commented upon.	Arguments of Petitioner
That apart, criticism is advanced from many a spectrum to strengthen the stance that it does not meet the standard and test determined by law.	Arguments of Petitioner
Needless to say, the factual score and the investigation have to withstand the test of reliability and acceptability.	None
The appreciation of evidence brought on record requires to be appositely scrutinized to adjudge the fact whether the appellants are guilty of their culpability or there has been public pressure, as alleged, to falsely implicate the appellants or to treat them as guinea pigs to save others and accept the hypothesis that the prosecution has booked them at the instance of some political executives or to save a situation which a disturbed society perceives as a collective catastrophe on the paradigm of social stability and to sustain its faith in the investigation to keep the precept of rule of law alive.	None
In essence, the submission is that the whole exercise, namely, investigation and trial, has been carried out with the sole purpose for the survival of the prosecuting agency.	None
We have stated in the beginning that Mr. Sharma and Mr. Singh appearing for the appellants commenced their submission with all the vehemence and sensitivity at their command to strike at the root of the prosecution branding it as suspicious, absolutely unreliable, apathetic to the concept of individual dignity and engaged in maladroit effort to book the vulnerable and the innocent so as to disguise and cover their inefficiency to catch the real culprits.	None
In the course of our deliberation, we shall dwell upon the same and keenly scrutinize the justifiability of the aforesaid criticism.	None
The Prosecution Narrative Presently, we shall advert to the exposition of facts.	None
The prosecution case, as projected, is that on 16.12.2012, the deceased, Nirbhaya (not her real name), had gone with her friend, the informant, PW1, to the PVR situated in Select City Walk Mall, Saket to watch a movie.	Facts
After the show was over, about 830 p.m., they took an auto and reached Munirka bus stand wherefrom they boarded a white coloured chartered bus DL1PC0149, Ext.P1 which was bound to Dwarka Palam Road, as a boy in the bus was calling for commuters for the said destination.	Facts
As per the version of the informant, PW1, the friend of the prosecutrix, the bus had yellow and green lines stripes and the word Yadav was written on it.	Facts
After both of them had entered the bus, they noticed that six persons were already inside the bus, four in the cabin of the driver and two behind the drivers cabin.	Facts
The deceased and the informant sat on the left side in the row of twoseaters and paid the fare of twenty rupees as demanded.	Facts
Before they could get the feeling of a safe journey (though not a timeconsuming journey), a feeling of lonely suffocation and a sense of danger barged in, for the accused persons did not allow anyone else to board and the bus moved and the lights inside the bus were put off.	Facts
With the lights being put off, the darkness and the fear of the unexpected darkness ruled.	Facts
A few minutes later, three persons (who have been identified as accused Ram Singh, Akshay and a young boy, who has been treated as a juvenile in conflict with law) came out of the drivers cabin and started to abuse PW1.	Facts
The young companion of the deceased raised opposition to the abuse that led to an altercation which invited the other two who were sitting outside the drivers cabin to join.	None
The spirit to oppose and the duty to save the prosecutrix had to die down and perilously succumb to the assault by the accused persons with the iron rods that caused injuries to his head, both the legs and other parts of the body and the consequence was that he fell on the floor of the bus to hear the painful cries of the lady who, he knew, was being treated as an object, an article for experimentation and prey to the pervert proclivity of the six but could do nothing except to hear unbearable cries made in agony and pain.	Facts
His spirit was dead, and bound to.5.	Facts
As the prosecution story further unfurls, the two accused persons, namely, Pawan and Vinay, pinned the young man down and robbed the victims of their mobiles besides robbing the informant of his purse carrying a Citi Bank credit card, ICICI Bank Debit Card, his identity card issued by his employercompany, metro card, a sum of rupees one thousand, his Titan Watch, a golden ring studded with jewels and a silver ring studded with pearl, black colour Hush Puppies shoes, black colour Numero Uno jeans, a grey colour pullover and a brown colour blazer.	Facts
As per the version of the prosecution, PW1 was carrying two mobiles and the prosecutrix was carrying only one, and the accused snatched away all the three mobiles.6.	Facts
The overpowering was not meant to satisfy the avarice.	Facts
As the accusations proceed, after the informant was overpowered, as it could only have a singular result, the accused persons, namely, Ram Singh, Akshay and the Juvenile in Conflict with Law (JCL) took the prosecutrix to the rear side of the bus and she was raped by them, one after the other.7.	Facts
After committing rape, the accused Ram Singh (since deceased), accused Akshay and the JCL came towards the informant, PW1, and nailed him down then the accused Vinay and accused Pawan went to the rear side of the bus and committed rape on the prosecutrix, one by one.	Facts
PW1 noticed that earlier the bus was moving at fast speed but after sometime, he felt that the speed of the bus was reduced and he saw that the accused Mukesh, who was driving the bus, came near him and hit him with the rod and he also went to the rear side of the bus and raped the prosecutrix.	Facts
The prosecutrix was brutally gang raped by the accused one after the other and she was also subjected to unnatural sex.	Facts
Her private parts and her internal organs were seriously injured by inserting iron rod and hand in the rectal and vaginal region.	Facts
As per PW1, he had heard the cries of the prosecutrix like chod do, bachao.	None
PW1 could hear the prosecutrix shouting in a loud oscillating voice.	None
The prosecutrix was carrying a grey colour purse having an Axis Bank ATM card and other belongings.	Facts
The accused persons robbed her of her belongings and stripped her.	Facts
They also took away the clothes of the informant while beating him with iron rods.	Facts
The accused were exhorting that both the victims be not left alive.	Facts
The accused then tried to throw both the informant and the prosecutrix out of the moving bus from its rear door but could not open it and	Facts
so, they brought them to the front door and threw them out of the moving bus at National Highway No. 8, Hotel Delhi 37, Mahipalpur flyover by the side of the road.8.	Facts
As indicated earlier, the prosecutrix and PW1 were noticed by PW72, Raj Kumar, who heard the voice of bachao, bachao from the left side of the road near a milestone opposite to Hotel Delhi 37.	None
PW72 saw PW1 and the prosecutrix sitting naked having blood all around.	None
Immediately thereafter, PW72, Raj Kumar, informed PW70, Ram Pal, who was in the Control Room, requesting him to call PCR.	None
PW70, Ram Pal, of EGIS Infra Management India (P) Limited, dialed 100 No. and even asked his other patrolling staff to reach the spot.9. About 1024 p.m., PW73, H.C. Ram Chander, who was in charge of PCR van Zebra 54, received information about the incident and the lying of victims in a naked condition near the foot of Mahipalpur fly over towards Dhaula Kuan opposite GMR Gate.	Facts
PW73 reached the spot and found the victims.	None
He got the crowd dispersed and brought a bottle of water and a bedsheet from the nearby hotel and tore the same into two parts and gave it to both the victims to cover themselves.	None
Travel to the Safdarjung Hospital About 1100 p.m., PW73 took the victims to Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi.	None
On the way to the hospital, the victims gave their names to him and informed that they had boarded a bus from Munirka and that after some time the occupants had started misbehaving and had beaten the boy and taken the girl (prosecutrix) to the rear side of the bus and committed rape on her.	Facts
Thereafter, they had taken off the clothes of the victims and thrown them naked on the road.	None
While leaving the informant, PW1, in the casualty where he was examined by PW51, Dr. Sachin Bajaj, and his MLC, Ext. PW51/A, was drawn up, PW73 took the prosecutrix to the Gynae ward and got her admitted there.	None
The MLC of the prosecutrix,PW 49/B, was prepared by PW49, Dr. Rashmi Ahuja.11.	Facts
PW49, Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, recorded the history of the incident as told to her by the prosecutrix and noted the same in Exhibit PW49/A. As per the version narrated by the prosecutrix to her, it was a case of gang rape in a moving bus by 45 persons when the prosecutrix was returning after watching a movie with the informant.	Facts
She was slapped on her face, kicked on her abdomen and bitten over lips, cheek, breast and vulval region.	Facts
The prosecutrix remembered intercourse two times and rectal penetration also.	None
She was also forced to have unnatural oral sex but she refused.	Facts
All this continued for half an hour and then she was thrown off from the moving bus along with her friend.12.	Facts
The following external injuries were noted by Dr. Rashmi Ahuja in Ex.	Facts
PW49/A Bruise over left eye covering whole of the eyeb) Injury mark (abrasion) at right angle of eyec)	None
Bruise over left nostril involving upper lipd)	None
Both lips edematouse)	None
Bleeding from upper lip presentf)	None
Bite mark over right cheekg) Left angle of mouth injured (small laceration)h)	None
Bite mark over left cheeki)	None
Right breast bite marks below areola presentj)	None
Left breast bruise over right lower quadrant, bite mark in inferior left quadrant Per abdomeni)	None
Guarding rigidity presentLocal examinationa) Cut mark (sharp) over right labia presentb)	None
A tag of vagina (6 cm in length) hanging outside the introitusc)	None
There was profuse bleeding from vaginaPer vaginal examinationi)	None
A posterior vaginal wall tear of about 7 to 8 cmPer rectal examinationi)	Facts
Rectal tear of about 4 to 5 cm., communicating with the vaginal tear.	Facts
As the evidence brought on record would show, 20 samples of the prosecutrix were taken and sealed with the seal of the hospital and handed over to PW59, Inspector Raj Kumari.	None
Registration of FIR and the progress thereon	None
At this juncture, it is necessary to state that after the victims were rescued, the informant, PW1, Awninder Pratap, gave his first statement to the police at 345 a.m. on 17.12.2012 which culminated into the recording of the FIR at 540 a.m. being FIR No. 413/2012 dated 17.12.2012, PS Vasant Vihar under Section 120B IPC and Sections 365/366/376(2)(g)/377/307/302 IPC and or Sections 396/395 IPC read with Sections 397/201/412 IPC.	Facts
It was thereafter handed over to S.I. Pratibha Sharma, PW80, for investigation.15.	Facts
On the same night, i.e., 16/17.12.2012, the prosecutrix underwent first surgery around 400 a.m.	Facts
The prosecutrix was operated by PW50, Dr. Raj Kumar Chejara, Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi and his surgery team comprised of Dr. Gaurav and Dr. Piyush.	None
OT notes have been exhibited as Ex.	Facts
PW50/A and Ex.	None
PW50/B. The second and third surgeries were performed on 19.12.2012 and 23.12.2012 respectively.16.	None
During the period the prosecutrix was undergoing surgeries one after the other, and when all were concerned about her progress of recovery, the prosecution was carrying out its investigation in a manner that it thought systematic.	Facts
The first and foremost responsibility of the prosecution was to find out, on the basis of the information given, about the accused persons.	Facts
That is how the prosecution story uncurtains.17.	Facts
On 17.12.2012, supplementary statements of PW1 were recorded by PW80, SI Pratibha Sharma.	None
Based on the description of the bus given by PW1, the offending bus bearing No.	None
DL1PC0149 was found parked in Ravi Das Jhuggi Camp, R.K. Puram, New Delhi.	None
PW80 along with PW74, SI Subhash Chand, and PW65, Ct.	None
Kripal Singh, went to the spot and found accused Ram Singh sitting in the bus.	None
On seeing the police, Ram Singh got down from the bus and started running.	None
The police intercepted Ram Singh and he was arrested and interrogated.	None
Personal search was conducted on Ram Singh and his disclosure statement, Ex. P74/F, was recorded by PW74 and his team.	None
Based on his disclosure statement, PW74, Investigating Officer, SI Subhash Chand, seized the bus, Ex. P1, vide Seizure Memo Ex.	None
PW 74/K. PW74 seized the seat cover of the bus of red colour and its curtains of yellow colour.	None
On the bus, Yadav was found written on its body with green and yellow stripes on it.	None
The Investigating Officer also seized the key of the bus, Ex. P74/2, vide Seizure Memo Ex.	None
PW74/J. The documents of the bus were also seized.	None
The disclosure statement of Ram Singh, Ex.	None
PW74/F, led to the recovery of his bloodstained clothes, iron rods and debit card of Asha Devi, the mother of the prosecutrix.	None
PW74, Investigating Officer, also recovered ashes and the partly unburnt clothes lying near the bus which was seized	None
vide Memo Exhibit No.	None
PW74/M and Unix Mobile Phone with MTNL Sim, Ex. P74/5, vide Memo Ex.	None
P/74E. The Investigating Officer prepared the site plan of the place where the bus was parked and from where the ashes were found.	None
The arrest of the accused persons and seizure of articles The arrest of accused, Ram Singh, also led to the arrest of two other accused persons, namely, accused Vinay Sharma and accused Pawan Kaalu.	None
On 18.12.2012, accused Mukesh was apprehended from village Karoli by PW58, SI Arvind Kumar, and was produced before PW80, SI Pratibha Sharma.	None
At the instance of accused Mukesh Singh, a Samsung Galaxy Trend DUOS Blue Black mobile belonging to the informant was recovered.	None
On 23.12.2012, at his instance, PW80 prepared the route chart of the route where Mukesh drove the bus at the time of the incident, Ex PW80/H. Besides that, he got recovered his bloodstained clothes from the garage of his brother at Anupam Apartment, Saidulajab, Saket, New Delhi.	None
He opted to undergo Test Identification Parade.	None
In the Test Identification Parade conducted by PW17, Sandeep Garg, Metropolitan Magistrate, PW1, identified accusedMukesh.	None
Accused Pawan was apprehended and arrested about 115 p.m. on 18.12.2012 vide memo Ex.PW60/A his disclosure, Ex.PW60/G, was recorded and his personal search was conducted vide memo Ex.PW60/C.	None
In his disclosure statement, Pawan pointed out Munirka bus stand where the prosecutrix and PW1 boarded the bus and memo Ex.	None
PW68/I was prepared.	None
He also pointed at the spot where PW1 and the prosecutrix were thrown out of the bus and memo Ex.	None
PW68/J was prepared in this regard.21.	None
Accused Vinay Sharma got recovered his bloodstained clothes, PW1s Hush Puppies leather shoes and the prosecutrixs mobile phone, Nokia Model 3110 of black grey colour.	None
Further recoveries were made pursuant to his supplementary disclosure.	None
Similarly, accused Pawan Kumar got recovered from his jhuggi his bloodstained clothes, shoes and also a wrist watch make Sonata and Rs. 1000/ robbed from PW1.	None
On 21.12.2012, accused Akshay was also arrested from Village Karmalahang, PS Tandwa, Aurangabad, Bihar.	None
His disclosure statement was recorded.	None
He led to his brothers house in village Naharpur, Gurgaon, Haryana and got recovered his bloodstained clothes.	None
A ring belonging to PW1, two metro cards and a Nokia phone with SIM of Vodafone Company was also recovered from Akshay.	None
Akshay also opted to undergo TIP and was positively identified by PW1.	None
The mobile phones of the accused persons were seized and call details records with requisite certificates under Section 65B of Indian Evidence Act were obtained by the police.23.	None
After getting arrested, all the accused were medically examined.	None
The MLCs of all the accused persons show various injuries on their person viz., in the MLC, Ex.PW2/A, of accused Ram Singh, PW2, Dr. Akhilesh Raj, has opined that the injuries mentioned at point Q to P1 could possibly be struggle marks.	None
Similar opinions were received in respect of other accused persons.	None
PW7, Dr. Shashank Pooniya, has opined that the injuries present on the body of accused Akshay were a week old and were suggestive of struggle as per MLC, Ex.PW7/A. MLC, Ex.PW7/B, pertaining to accused Pawan shows that he had suffered injuries on his body which were simple in nature.	None
The MLC, Ex.PW7/C, of accused Vinay Sharma proved that he too suffered injuries, simple in nature, 2 to 3 days old, though injury No. 8 was claimed to be self inflicted by the accused himself.	None
Further treatment of the victim and filing of chargesheet While the arrest took place, as indicated earlier, the victim underwent second and third surgeries on 19.12.2012 and 23.12.2012 respectively.	None
The second surgery was performed on the prosecutrix on 19.12.2012 by PW50, Dr. Raj Kumar Chejara, along with his operating team consisting of Prof. Sunil Kumar, Dr. Pintu and Dr. Siddharth.	None
Dr. Aruna Batra and Dr. Rekha Bharti were present along with the anaesthetic team.	None
The clinical notes, Ex.PW50/C, and notes prepared by the Gynaecology team, Ex.PW50/D, can be referred to in this regard.	None
The prosecutrix was reoperated on 23.12.2012 for peritoneal lavage and placement of drain under general anaesthesia and the notes are exhibited as Ex.	None
PW50/E. As the condition of the prosecutrix did not improve much, the prosecution thought it appropriate to record the statements of the prosecutrix.	None
The said statements have been conferred the status of dying declaration.	None
As is noticeable from the evidence, PW49 also deposed that certain exhibits were collected for examination such as outer clothes, i.e., sweater, sheet covering the patient inner clothes, i.e., Sameej torned dust grass present in hairs, dust in clothes debris from in between fingers debris from nails nail clippings nail scrapings breast swab body fluid collection (swab from saliva) combing of pubic hair matted pubic hair, clipping of pubic hair cervical mucus collection vaginal secretions vaginal culture washing from vaginal rectal swab oral swab urine and oxalate blood vial blood samples, etc.26.	None
On 21.12.2012, on being declared fit, the second dying declaration was recorded by PW27, Smt.	None
Usha Chaturvedi, SubDivisional Magistrate.	None
This dying declaration is an elaborate one where the prosecutrix has described the incident in detail including the insertion of rods in her private parts.	None
She also stated that the accused were addressing each other with names like, Ram Singh, Thakur, Raju, Mukesh, Pawan and Vinay.27.	None
On 25th December, 2012, at 100 p.m., PW30, Shri Pawan Kumar, Metropolitan Magistrate, went to the hospital to record the dying declaration of the prosecutrix.	None
The attending doctors opined that the prosecutrix was not in a position to speak	None
but she was otherwise conscious and responded by way of gestures.	None
Accordingly, PW30 put questions in such a manner as to enable her to narrate the incident by way of gestures or writing.	None
Her statement, Ex.PW30/D, was recorded by PW30 in the form of dying declaration by putting her questions in the nature of multiple choice questions.	None
The prosecutrix gave her statement dying declaration through gestures and writings, Exhibit PW30/D, the contents of which will be discussed later.28.	None
At this juncture, the cure looked quite distant.	None
The health condition was examined on 26th December 2012 by a team of doctors comprising of Dr. Sandeep Bansal, Cardiologist, Dr. Raj Kumar Chejara, Dr. Sunil Kumar, Dr. Arun Batra and Dr. P.K. Verma and since the condition of the prosecutrix was critical, it was decided that she be shifted abroad for further treatment and fostering oasis of hope on 27th December, 2012, she was shifted to Mt. Elizabeth Hospital, Singapore, for her further treatment.	None
The hope and expiration became a visible mirage as the prosecutrix died on 29th December, 2012 at Mt. Elizabeth Hospital, Singapore.	None
Dr. Paul Chui, PW34, Forensic Pathologist, Health Sciences Authority, Singapore, deposed that her exact time of death was 445 a.m. on 29th December, 2012.	None
The death occurred at Mt. Elizabeth Hospital and the cause of her death was sepsis with multiple organ failure following multiple injuries.	None
The original post mortem report is Ex.	None
PW34/A and its scanned copy is Ex.PW34/B the Toxicology Report dated 4th January, 2013 is Exhibit PW34/C. In the postmortem report, Ex.PW34/A, besides other serious injuries, various bite marks have been observed on her face, lips, jaw, rear ear, on the right and left breasts, left upper arm, right lower limb, right upper inner thigh (groin), right lower thigh, left thigh lateral and left leg lower anterior.29.	None
It is apt to note here that during the course of investigation (keeping in mind that the vehicle was identified), the investigating agency went around to collect the electronic evidence.	None
A CCTV footage produced by PW25, Rajender Singh Bisht, in a CD, Ex.PW25/C1 and PW25/C2, and the photographs, Ex.PW25/B1 to Ex.	None
PW25/B7, were collected from the Mall, Select City Walk, Saket to ascertain the presence of PW1 and the prosecutrix at the Mall.	None
The certificate under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (for short, Evidence Act) with respect to the said footage is proved by PW26, Shri Sandeep Singh, vide Ex.	None
PW26/A. Another important evidence is the CCTV footage of Hotel Delhi 37 situated near the dumping spot.	None
The said footage showed a bus matching the description given by the informant at 934 p.m. and again at 953 p.m.	None
The said bus had the word Yadav written on one side.	None
Its exterior was of white colour having yellow and green stripes and its front tyre on the left side did not have a wheel cap.	None
The description of the bus was affirmed by PW1s statement.	None
The CCTV footage stored in the pen drive, Ex.P67/1, and the CD, Ex.P67/2, were seized by the I.O. vide seizure memo Ex.	None
PW67/A from PW67, Pramod Kumar Jha, the owner of Hotel Delhi 37.	None
The same were identified by PW67, Pramod Jha, PW74, SI Subhash, and PW76, Gautam Roy, from CFSL during their examination in Court.	None
PW78, SHO, Inspector Anil Sharma, had testified that the said CCTV footage seized vide seizure memo Ex.	None
PW67/A was sent to the CFSL through S.I. Sushil Sawaria and PW77, the MHC(M).	None
Thereafter, on 01.01.2013, the report of the CFSL was received.30.	None
As the prosecution story would further undrape, in the course of investigation, the test identification parade was carried out.	None
We shall advert to the same at a later stage.	None
We had indicated in the beginning that the investigating team had taken aid of modern methods to strengthen its case.	None
The process undertaken, the method adopted and the results are severely criticized by the learned counsel for the appellants to which we shall later on revert to but presently to the steps taken by the investigating agency during investigation.	None
With the intention to cover the case from all possible spheres and to establish the allegations with the proof of conclusivity and not to give any chance of doubt, the prosecution thought that it was its primary duty to ascertain the identity of the accused persons and for the said purpose, it carried out DNA analysis and fingerprint and bite mark analysis.	None
Collection of samples and identity of accused persons The blood sample of the informant was collected by Dr. Kamran Faisal, PW15, Safdarjung Hospital, on 25.12.2012 and was handed over to SI Pratibha Sharma, PW80, vide seizure memo Ex.	None
PW15/A by Constable Suresh Kumar, PW42.	None
Similarly, as mentioned earlier, PW49, Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, had collected certain samples from the person of the prosecutrix which are reflected in Ex.PW49/A from point B to B. All the samples were collected by Inspector Raj Kumari, PW59, vide seizure memo Ex.	None
PW59/A	None
and were handed over to PW80, SI Pratibha Sharma, at Safdarjung Hospital in the morning of 17.12.2012.	None
Also the samples of gangrenous bowels of the prosecutrix were taken on 24.12.2012 and were handed over to SI Gajender Singh, PW55, who seized the same vide seizure memo Ex.	None
PW11/A. All the samples were deposited with the MHC(M) and were not tampered with in any manner.	None
A specimen of scalp hair of the prosecutrix was also taken on 24.12.2012 by Dr. Ranju Gandhi, PW29, and was handed over to PW 80, SI Pratibha Sharma, vide seizure memo Ex.	None
PW29/A. The accused were also subjected to medical examination and samples were taken from their person which were sent for DNA analysis.34.	None
DNA analysis was done at the behest of PW45, Dr. B.K. Mohapatra, Sr. Scientific Officer, Biology, CFSL, CBI, and Biological Examination and DNA profiling reports were prepared which are exhibited as Ex. PW45/AC.	None
The report, after analysing the DNA profiles generated from the known samples of the prosecutrix, the informant, and each of the accused, concluded that An analysis of the above shows that the samples were authentic and established the identities of the persons mentioned above beyond reasonable doubt.	None
On 17.12.2012 and 18.12.2012, a team of experts from the CFSL went to Thyagraj Stadium and lifted chance prints from the bus in question, Ex.P1.	None
On 28.12.2012, PW78, Inspector Anil Sharma of P.S. Vasant Vihar, the then S.H.O. of Police Station Vasant Vihar, requested the Director, CFSL, for taking digital palm prints and foot prints of all the accused persons vide his letter Ex.PW46/C. Pursuant to the said request made by PW78, Inspector Anil Sharma, the CFSL, on 31.12.2012, took the finger palm prints and foot prints of the accused persons at Tihar Jail.	None
After comparing the chance prints lifted from the bus with the finger prints palm prints and foot prints of all the accused persons, PW46, Shri A.D. Shah, Senior Scientific Officer (Finger Prints), CFSL, CBI submitted his report Ex.PW46/D. In the report, the chance prints of accused Vinay Sharma were found to have matched with those on the bus in question.36.	None
Bite mark analysis was also undertaken by the investigative team to establish the identity and involvement of the accused persons.	None
PW66, Asghar Hussain, on the instructions of the I.O., S.I. Pratibha Sharma, had taken 10 photographs of different parts of the body of the prosecutrix at SJ Hospital on 20.12.2012 between 430 p.m. and 500 p.m. which were marked as Ex.PW66/B (Colly.)	None
10 photographs of 5 x 7 each and Ex.PW66/C (Colly.)	None
10 photographs of 8 x 12 each.	None
PW66 also proved in Court the certificate provided by him in terms of Section 65B of the Evidence Act in respect of the photographs, Ex.	None
PW66/A. Thereafter, PW18, SI Vishal Choudhary, collected the photographs and the dental models from Safdarjung Hospital on 01.01.2013 and duly deposited the same in the malkhana after he, PW18, had handed them over to the S.H.O. Anil Sharma, PW78.	None
The same were later entrusted to S.I. Vishal Choudhary, PW18 on 02.01.2013, which is proved vide RC No.183/21/12 and exhibited as Ex.	None
PW77/V. PW71, Dr. Ashith B. Acharya, submitted the final report in this regard which is exhibited as Ex.	None
PW71/C. In the said report, he has concluded that at least three bite marks were caused by accused Ram Singh whereas one bite mark has been identified to have been most likely caused by accused Akshay.37.	None
It is seemly to note here that on completion of the investigation, the chargesheet came to be filed on 03.01.2013 under Section 365/376(2)(g)/377/307/395/ 397/302/396/412/201/120/34 IPC and supplementary chargesheet was filed on 04.02.2013.Charge and examination of witnesses, conviction and awarding of sentence by the trial court38.	None
After the case was committed to the Court of Session, all the accused were charged for the following offences 1.	None
u s 120B IPC2.	None
u s. 365 366 307 376 (2)(g) IPC 377 IPC read with Section 120B IPC3.	None
u s. 396	None
IPC read with Section 120B IPC and or4.	None
u s. 302	None
IPC read with Section 120B IPC5.	None
u s. 395	None
IPC read with Section 397 IPC read with 120B IPC6.	None
u s. 201 IPC read with Section 120B IPC and7.	None
u s. 412 IPC.	None
During the course of trial, accused Ram Singh committed suicide and the proceedings qua him stood abated vide order dated 12.10.2013.39.	None
It is worthy to mention here that in order to bring home the charge, the prosecution initially examined 82 witnesses and thereafter, the statements of the accused persons were recorded and they abjured their guilt.	None
Accused Pawan Gupta Kaalu examined Lal Chand, DW1, Heera Lal, DW2, Ram Charan, DW3, Gyan Chand, DW4, and Hari Kishan Sharma, DW16, in support of his plea.	None
Accused Vinay Sharma examined Smt.	None
Champa Devi, DW5, Hari Ram Sharma, DW6, Kishore Kumar Bhat, DW7, Sri Kant, DW8, Manu Sharma, DW9, Ram Babu, DW10, and Dinesh, DW17, to establish his stand.	None
Accused Akshay Kumar Singh Thakur examined Chavinder, DW11, Sarju Singh, DW12, Raj Mohan Singh, DW13, Punita Devi, DW14, and Sarita Devi, DW15.	None
As the factual matrix would reveal, subsequently three more prosecution witnesses were examined and on behalf of the defence, two witnesses were examined.40.	None
Learned Sessions Judge, vide judgment dated 10.09.2013, convicted all the accused persons, namely, Akshay Kumar Singh Thakur, Vinay Sharma, Mukesh and Pawan Gupta Kaalu under Section 120B IPC for the offence of criminal conspiracy under Section 365/366 IPC read with Section 120B IPC for abducting the victims with an intention to force the prosecutrix to illicit intercourse under Section 307 IPC read with Section 120B IPC for attempting to kill PW1, the informant under Section 376(2) (g) IPC for committing gang rape with the prosecutrix in pursuance of their conspiracy under Section 377 IPC read with Section 120B IPC for committing unnatural offence with the prosecutrix under Section 302 IPC read with Section 120B IPC for committing murder of the helpless prosecutrix under Section 395 IPC for conjointly committing dacoity in pursuance of the aforesaid conspiracy under Section 397 IPC read with Section 120B IPC for the use of iron rods and for attempting to kill PW1 at the time of committing robbery under Section 201 IPC read with Section 120B IPC for destroying of evidence and under Section 412 IPC for the offence of being individually found in possession of the stolen property which they all knew was a stolen booty of dacoity committed by them.41.	None
After recording the conviction, as aforesaid, the learned trial Judge imposed the sentence, which we reproduce The convicts, namely, convict Akshay Kumar Singh Thakur, convict Mukesh, convict Vinay Sharma and convict Pawan Gupta Kaalu are sentenced to death for offence punishable under Section 302 Indian Penal Code.	None
Accordingly, the convicts to be hanged by neck till they are dead.	None
Fine of Rs. 10,000/ to each of the convict is also imposed and in default of payment of fine such convict shall undergo simple imprisonment for a period of one month.(b) for the offence under Section 120B	None
IPC I award the punishment of life imprisonment to each of the convict and fine of Rs. 5000/ to each of them.	None
In default of payment of fine simple imprisonment for one month to such convict(c) for the offence under Section 365 IPC I award the punishment of seven years to each of the convict and fine of Rs. 5000/ to each of them.	None
In default of payment of fine simple imprisonment for one month to such convict(d) for the offence under Section 366 IPC I award the punishment of seven years to each of the convict person and fine of Rs. 5000/ to each of them.	None
In default of payment of fine simple imprisonment for one month to such convict(e) for the offence under Section 376(2)(g) IPC I award the punishment of life imprisonment to each of the convict person with fine of Rs. 5000/ to each of them.	None
In default of payment of fine simple imprisonment for one month to such convict(f) for the offence under Section 377 IPC I award the punishment of ten years to each of the convict person and fine of Rs. 5000/ to each of them.	None
In default of payment of fine simple imprisonment for one month to such convict(g) for the offence under Section 307 IPC I award the punishment of seven years to each of the convict person and fine of Rs. 5000/ to each of them.	None
In default of payment of fine simple imprisonment for one month to such convict(h) for the offence under Section 201 IPC I award the punishment of seven years to each of the convict person and fine of Rs. 5000/ to each of them.	None
In default of payment of fine simple imprisonment for one month to such convict(i) for the offence under Section 395 read with Section 397 IPC I award the punishment of ten years to each of the convict person and fine of Rs. 5000/ to each of them.	None
In default of payment of fine simple imprisonment for one month to such convict(j) for the offence under Section 412 IPC I award the punishment of ten years to each of the convict person and fine of Rs. 5000/ to each of them.	None
In default of payment of fine simple imprisonment for one month to such convict Be it noted, the learned trial Judge directed the sentences under Sections 120B/365/366/376(2)(g) 377/201/395/397/412 IPC to run concurrently and that the benefit under Section 428 CrPC would be given wherever applicable.	None
He further recommended that appropriate compensation under Section 357A CrPC be awarded to the legal heirs of the prosecutrix and, accordingly, sent a copy of the order to the Secretary, Delhi Legal Services Authority, New Delhi, for deciding the quantum of compensation to be awarded under the scheme referred to in subsection (1) of Section 357A CrPC.	None
That apart, as death penalty was imposed, he referred the matter to the High Court for confirmation under Section 366 CrPC.	None
The view of the High court The High Court, vide judgment dated 13.03.2014, affirmed the conviction and confirmed the death penalty imposed upon the accused by expressing the opinion that under the facts and circumstances of the case, imposition of death penalty awarded by the trial court deserved to be confirmed in respect of all the four convicts.	None
As the death penalty was confirmed, the appeals preferred by the accused faced the inevitable result, that is, dismissal.	None
Commencement of hearing and delineation of contentions As we had stated earlier, the grievance relating to the lodging of FIR and the manner in which it has been registered has been seriously commented upon and criticized by the learned counsel for the appellants.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sharma, learned counsel for the appellants  Mukesh and Pawan Kumar Gupta, and	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Singh, learned counsel for the appellants  Vinay Sharma and Akshay Kumar Singh, have stressed with all the conviction at their command that when a matter of confirmation of death penalty is assailed before this Court, it is the duty of this Court to see every aspect in detail and not to treat it as an ordinary appeal.	Arguments of Petitioner
As the argument commenced with the said note, we thought it appropriate to grant liberty to the learned counsel for the appellants to challenge the conviction and the imposition of death sentence from all aspects and counts and to dissect the evidence and project the irregularities in arrest and investigation.	None
Learned counsel for the parties argued the matter for considerable length of time and hence, we shall deal with every aspect in detail.	None
Delayed registration of FIR	None
The attack commences with the registration of FIR and, therefore, we shall delve into the same in detail.	None
PW57, ASI Kapil Singh, the Duty Officer at P.S. Vasant Vihar, New Delhi, on the intervening night of 16/17.12.2012, received information about the incident.	None
He lodged DD No.6A, Ex.PW57/A, and passed on the said DD to PW74, SI Subhash Chand, who was on emergency duty that night at P.S. Vasant Vihar.	None
Immediately thereafter, PW57, ASI Kapil Singh, received yet another information qua admission of the prosecutrix and of the informant in Safdarjung Hospital and he lodged DD No.7A, Ex.PW57/B, and also passed on the said DD to SI Subhash Chand.	None
PW74, SI Subhash Chand, then left for Safdarjung Hospital where he met PW59, Inspector Raj Kumari, and PW62, SI Mahesh Bhargava.	None
PW59, Inspector Raj Kumari, handed over to him the MLC and the exhibits concerning the prosecutrix as given to her by the treating doctor and PW62, SI Mahesh Bhargava, handed over to him the MLC of the informant.	None
PW74, SI Subhash Chand, then recorded the statement, Ex.PW1/A, of the informant at 130 a.m. on 17.12.2012 and made his endorsement, Ex.	None
PW74/A, on it	None
and he gave the rukka to PW65, Ct.	None
Kripal Singh, for being taken to P.S. Vasant Vihar, New Delhi and to get the FIR registered.	None
PW65, Ct.	None
Kripal Singh, then went to P.S. Vasant Vihar, New Delhi and at 540 a.m. and gave the rukka to PW57, ASI Kapil Singh, the Duty Officer, who, in turn, recorded the FIR, Ex.PW57/D, made endorsement, Ex.PW57/E, on the rukka and returned it to PW65, Ct.	None
Kripal Singh, who then handed it to PW80, SI Pratibha Sharma, at P.S. Vasant Vihar to whom the investigation was entrusted.	None
SI Subhash Chand, PW74, deposed that the statement of the informant might have been recorded around 345 a.m. although PW1 deposed that his statement was recorded at 530 a.m.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the original statement was recorded by HC Ram Chander, PW73, and the investigation process had already begun around 115 a.m.	Arguments of Petitioner
and the subsequent information from the informant which is stated to be the first information was, in fact, crafted after the investigating agency decided on a course of action.	None
It is submitted by the learned counsel for the appellants that the delay in the FIR raises serious doubts.	Arguments of Petitioner
Delay in setting the law into motion by lodging of complaint in court or FIR at police station is normally viewed by courts with suspicion because there is possibility of concoction of evidence against an accused.	None
Therefore, it becomes necessary for the prosecution to satisfactorily explain the delay.	None
Whether the delay is so long as to throw a cloud of suspicion on the case of the prosecution would depend upon a variety of factors.	None
Even a long delay can be condoned if the informant has no motive for implicating the accused.	None
In the present case, after the occurrence, the prosecutrix and PW1 were admitted to the hospital at 1105 p.m.	None
the victim was admitted in the Gynaecology Ward and PW1, the informant, in the casualty ward.	None
PW74, SI Subhash Chand, recorded the statement of PW1 at 345 a.m. After PW1 and the prosecutrix were taken to the hospital for treatment, the statement of PW1 was recorded by PW74, SI Subhash Chand, at 137 a.m. and the same was handed over to PW 65, Constable Kripal Singh, to PW57, Kapil Singh.	Reasoning
In the initial stages, the intention of all concerned must have been to save the victim by giving her proper medical treatment.	Reasoning
Even assuming for the sake of argument that there is delay, the same is in consonance with natural human conduct.51.	Reasoning
In this case, there is no delay in the registration of FIR.	Reasoning
The sequence of events are natural and in the present case, after the occurrence, the victim and PW1 were thrown out of the bus at Mahipalpur in seminaked condition and were rescued by PW72, Raj Kumar, and PW70, Ram Pal, both EGIS Infra Management India (P) Limited employees.	None
The victim was seriously injured and was in a critical condition and it has to be treated as a natural conduct that giving medical treatment to her was of prime importance.	Reasoning
The admission of PW1 and the victim in the hospital and the completion of procedure must have taken some time.	None
PW1 himself was injured and was admitted to the hospital at 1105 p.m.	None
No delay can be said to have been caused in examining PW1, the informant.	None
In the context of belated FIR, we may usefully refer to certain authorities in the field.	None
In Ram Jag and others v. State of U.P., (1974) 4 SCC 201 AIR 1974 SC 606 it was held as that witnesses cannot be called upon to explain every hours delay and a commonsense view has to be taken in ascertaining whether the first information report was lodged after an undue delay so as to afford enough scope for manipulating evidence.	None
Whether the delay is so long as to throw a cloud of suspicion on the seeds of the prosecution case must depend upon a variety of factors which would vary from case to case.	None
Even a long delay in filing report of an occurrence can be condoned if the witnesses on whose evidence the prosecution relies have no motive for implicating the accused.	None
On the other hand, prompt filing of the report is not an unmistakable guarantee of the truthfulness of the version of the prosecution.	None
In State of Himachal Pradesh v. Rakesh Kumar, (2009) 6 SCC 308 the Court repelled the submission pertaining to delay in lodging of the FIR on the ground that the first endeavour is always to take the person to the hospital immediately so as to provide him medical treatment and only thereafter report the incident to the police.	None
The Court in the said case further held that every minute was precious and, therefore, it is natural that the witnesses accompanying the deceased first tried to take him to the hospital so as to enable him to get immediate medical treatment.	None
Such action was definitely in accordance with normal human conduct and psychology.	None
When their efforts failed and the deceased died they immediately reported the incident to the police.	None
The Court, under the said circumstances ruled that in fact, it was a case of quick reporting to the police.	None
Judged on the anvil of the aforesaid decisions, we have no hesitation in arriving at the conclusion that there was no delay in lodging of the FIR.	None
Nonmentioning of assailants in the FIR An argument was advanced assailing the FIR to the effect that the FIR does not contain (i) the names of the assailants either in the MLC, Ex.PW51/A, or in the complaint, Ex.PW1/A, (ii) the description of the bus and (iii) the use of iron rods.55.	Arguments of Petitioner
As far as the argument that the FIR does not contain the names of all the accused persons is concerned, it has to be kept in mind that it is settled law that FIR is not an encyclopedia of facts and it is not expected from a victim to give details of the incident either in the FIR or in the brief history given to the doctors.	None
FIR is not an encyclopedia which is expected to contain all the details of the prosecution case it may be sufficient if the broad facts of the prosecution case alone appear.	Reasoning
If any overt act is attributed to a particular accused among the assailants, it must be given greater assurance.	Reasoning
In this context, reference to certain authorities would be fruitful.	None
In Rattan Singh v. State of H.P., (1997) 4 SCC 161 the Court, while repelling the submission for accepting the view of the trial court took note of the fact that there had been omission of the details and observed that the criminal courts should not be fastidious with mere omissions in the first information statement since such statements can neither be expected to be a chronicle of every detail of what happened nor expected to contain an exhaustive catalogue of the events which took place.	None
The person who furnishes the first information to the authorities might be fresh with the facts but he need not necessarily have the skill or ability to reproduce details of the entire story without anything missing therefrom.	None
Some may miss even important details in a narration.	None
Quite often, the police officer, who takes down the first information, would record what the informant conveys to him without resorting to any elicitatory exercise.	None
It is voluntary narrative of the informant without interrogation which usually goes into such statement and hence, any omission therein has to be considered along with the other evidence to determine whether the fact so omitted never happened at all.	None
The Court also referred to the principles stated in Pedda Narayana v. State of A.P., (1975) 4 SCC 153 Sone Lal v. State of U.P., (1978) 4 SCC 302 Gurnam Kaur v. Bakshish Singh, 1980 Supp SCC 567.	None
In State of Uttar Pradesh v. Naresh and others, (2011) 4 SCC 324 reiterating the principle, the Court opined that it is settled legal proposition that FIR is not an encyclopedia of the entire case.	None
It may not and need not contain all the details.	None
Naming of the accused therein may be important but not naming of the accused in FIR may not be a ground to doubt the contents thereof in case the statement of the witness is found to be trustworthy.	None
The court has to determine after examining the entire factual scenario whether a person has participated in the crime or has been falsely implicated.	None
The informant fully acquainted with the facts may lack necessary skill or ability to reproduce details of the entire incident without anything missing from the same.	None
Some people may miss even the most important details in narration.	None
Therefore, in case the informant fails to name a particular accused in the FIR, this ground alone cannot tilt the balance of the case in favour of the accused.	None
For the aforesaid purpose reliance was placed upon Rotash v. State of Rajasthan, (2006) 12 SCC 64 and Ranjit Singh v. State of M.P., (2011) 4 SCC 336 In Rotash (supra) this Court while dealing with the omission of naming an accused in the FIR opined that 14.	None
We, however, although did not intend to ignore the importance of naming of an accused in the first information report, but herein we have seen that he had been named in the earliest possible opportunity.	None
Even assuming that PW 1 did not name him in the first information report, we do not find any reason to disbelieve the statement of Mooli Devi, PW 6.	None
The question is as to whether a person was implicated by way of an afterthought or not must be judged having regard to the entire factual scenario obtaining in the case.	None
PW 6 received as many as four injuries.	None
While dealing with a similar issue in Animireddy Venkata Ramana v. Public Prosecutor, (2008) 5 SCC 368 the Court held as under 13.	None
While considering the effect of some omissions in the first information report on the part of the informant, a court cannot fail to take into consideration the probable physical and mental condition of the first informant.	None
One of the important factors which may weigh with the court is as to whether there was a possibility of false implication of the appellants.	None
Only with a view to test the veracity of the correctness of the contents of the report, the court applies certain wellknown principles of caution.	None
Thus, apart from other aspects what is required to be scrutinized is that there is no attempt for false implication, application of principle of caution and evaluation of the testimonies of the witnesses as regards their trustworthiness.60.	Reasoning
In view of the aforesaid settled position of law, we are not disposed to accept the contention that omission in the first statement of the informant is fatal to the case.	Reasoning
We are disposed to think so, for the omission has to be considered in the backdrop of the entire factual scenario, the materials brought on record and objective weighing of the circumstances.	Reasoning
The impact of the omission, as is discernible from the authorities, has to be adjudged in the totality of the circumstances and the veracity of the evidence.	Reasoning
The involvement of the accused persons cannot be determined solely on the basis of what has been mentioned in the FIR.61.	Reasoning
In his statement recorded in the early hours of 17.12.2012, PW1 stated about going to the Select City Walk Mall, Saket alongwith the prosecutrix and boarding the bus.	None
He has also stated about the presence of four persons sitting in the cabin of the bus and two boys sitting behind the cabin and clearly stated about the overt act.	None
He has broadly made reference to the accused persons and also to the overt acts.	None
There are no indications of fabrication in Ex.PW1/A. The victim and PW1 were thrown out of the bus and after some time they were admitted to the hospital.	None
Both the injuries on PW1s person and the gruesome acts against the victim must have put him in a traumatic condition and it would not have been possible for him to recall and narrate the entire incident to the police at one instance.	None
It cannot be said that merely because the names of the accused persons are not mentioned in the FIR, it raises serious doubts about the prosecution case.	Reasoning
Appreciation of the evidence of PW1 Having dealt with the contention of delay in lodging of the FIR and omission of names in the FIR on the basis of the first statement of PW1, we may now proceed to appreciate the evidentiary value to be attached to the testimony of PW1 and the contentions advanced in this regard.	None
As per the evidence of PW1, he alongwith the prosecutrix, on the fateful day about 330 p.m., took an auto from Dwarka, New Delhi to Select City Walk Mall, Saket, New Delhi, where they watched a movie till about 830 p.m. and, thereafter, left the Mall.	None
As they could not get an auto for Dwarka, they hired an auto for Munirka intending to take a bus (route No. 764) thereon.	None
About 900 p.m. when they reached Munirka bus stand they boarded a white colour chartered bus and JCL was calling for commuters to Dwarka Palam Mod.	None
While boarding the bus, PW1 noted that the bus had Yadav written on its side had yellow and green lines stripes the entry gate was ahead of its front left tyre and its front tyre was without a wheel cover.	None
After boarding, he saw that besides the boy (JCL) who was calling for passengers and the driver, two other persons were sitting in the drivers cabin and two persons were seated inside the bus on either side of the aisle.	None
After the bus left the Munirka bus stand, the lights inside the bus were turned off.	None
Then accused Ram Singh, accused Akshay Thakur and the JCL (all three identified later) came towards PW1 and verbally and physically assaulted him.	None
When PW1 resisted them, accused Vinay and accused Pawan were called along with iron rods and all the accused persons started hitting PW1 with the iron rods.	None
When the prosecutrix attempted to call for help, PW1 and the prosecutrix were robbed of their possessions.	None
PW1 was immobilized by accused Vinay and accused Pawan Kumar while others, viz., accused Ram Singh, Akshay and the JCL took the prosecutrix to the rear side of the bus whereafter PW1 heard the prosecutrix shout out chod do, bachao and her cry.	None
After the above, three accused committed the heinous act of raping the prosecutrix, accused Vinay and Pawan then went to the rear side of the bus while the other three pinned down PW1.	None
Thereafter, accused Mukesh (originally driving the bus) hit PW1 with the rod and went to the rear side of the bus.	Facts
PW1 also heard one of the accused saying mar gayee, mar gayee.	None
After the incident, PW1 and the prosecutrix were dragged to the front door (because the rear door was jammed) and were pushed out of the moving bus opposite Hotel Delhi 37.	None
After being thrown outside, the bus was turned in such a manner as to crush both of them but PW1 pulled the prosecutrix and himself out of the reach of the wheels of the bus and saved their lives.	None
The statement of the informant, PW1, was recorded by PW74 in the early hours of 17.12.12 and Ex.PW1/A is the complaint.	None
In his chief examination, PW74 deposes that he had given the complaint (rukka) to Ct.	None
Kripal Singh	None
and sent him to the police station at 510 a.m. which thereby leaves the time of recording the informants statement inconclusive.	None
Even if the version of PW74 was to be relied upon and the informants statement had been recorded by 510 a.m., DD entry which forms Ex.	None
PW57/C records that till 530 a.m., no punishable offence has been reported to have occurred and information of wellbeing had been recorded despite the fact that previous DD entries had been recorded on the basis of telephonic conversations between police officers at the hospital, the scene of crime and the control room (both DD entries 6A and 7A had been recorded on the basis of phone conversations).	None
The first supplementary statement was recorded around 730 a.m., on 17.12.2012 specifically with respect to the bus in question.	None
In this statement, Ex. PW80/D1, PW1 merely gives a generic description of the bus.	None
However, unlike in Ex. PW1/A, in his supplementary statement, the informant states that the bus was white in colour with stripes of yellow and green, that there were 3 x 2 seats and that if he remembered anything else, he would reveal the same.	None
At this time, the investigating agency had neither seized the bus nor arrested the accused the statement of the informant is, therefore, silent on specific details about the same.	None
PWs second supplementary statement, Ex.PW80/D3, was recorded around noon on 17.12.2012 in which the informant, for the first time since the time of the incident, revealed details about the bus in which the crime allegedly occurred (that there was the word Yadav written on the side, that the front wheel cover was missing), and also revealed the names of the accused (Ram Singh, one Thakur, one Mukesh Ramesh, Vinay and Pawan).67.	None
The learned amicus curiae, Mr. Hegde, submitted that at every stage, PW1 made improvement in his statements.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that when PW1 was confronted with the omissions Ex.PW1/A, Ex.PW8/D1 and Ex.	None
PW80/D3, he stated that he was unable to talk at the time of recording of his statement due to injury to the tongue.	None
It was submitted that as per Ex.PW51/A, he sustained only simple injury and it does not state that PW1 suffered injury to his tongue.	None
It was further contended that the process of improving and embellishing the informants statement did not end with recording his statement under Section 161 CrPC.	Arguments of Petitioner
On 19.12.2012, the informant made a statement under Section 164 CrPC before the Metropolitan Magistrate, Saket Courts.	Arguments of Petitioner
This statement is the most comprehensive and contains details which had been discovered by the prosecution by then such as the names of all the accused (including the name of the JCL for the first time) and details from inside the bus (colour of the seats and curtains).	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that the improved version of PW1 renders his evidence unreliable and merely because he is an injured witness, his evidence cannot be accepted.68.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged by Mr. Hegde, learned amicus curiae, that inconsistencies and omissions amounting to contradiction in the testimony of PW1 make him an untrustworthy and unreliable witness.	Arguments of Petitioner
The inconsistencies pointed out by the learned amicus curiae pertain to the number of assailants, the description of the bus and the identity of the accused.	Arguments of Petitioner
As regards the omission, it is contended by him that the said witness had not mentioned about the alleged use of rod in the FIR.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has further submitted that though he has stated that he had been assaulted by the iron rods as per his subsequent statement, yet the said statement is wholly unacceptable since he had sustained only simple injuries.69.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Hegde, in his further criticism of the evidence of PW1, has put forth that the effort of the prosecution had been to highlight the consistencies instead of explaining the inconsistencies.	Arguments of Petitioner
That apart, submits Mr. Hegde, that the witness has revealed the story step by step including the gradual recognition of the identity of the accused in tandem with the process of investigation and in such a situation, his testimony has to be looked with suspicion.70.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sharma, learned counsel for the appellants  Mukesh and Pawan Kumar Gupta, and	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Singh, learned counsel for the appellants  Vinay Sharma and Akshay Kumar Singh, submit that the omissions in the statement of PW1 amount to contradictions in material particulars and such contradictions go to the root of the case and, in fact, materially affect the trial or the very case of the prosecution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, they submit that the testimony of PW1, who is treated as a star witness, is liable to be discredited.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance has been placed on the authorities in State Represented by Inspector of Police v. Saravanan another, (2008) 17 SCC 587 AIR 2009 SC 152 Arumugam v. State Represented by Inspector of Police, Tamil Nadu, (2008) 15 SCC 590 AIR 2009 SC 331 Mahendra Pratap Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (2009) 11 SCC 334 and Sunil Kumar Sambhudayal Gupta (Dr.) and others v. State of Maharashtra, (2010) 13 SCC 657 JT 2010 (12) SC 287 .	Arguments of Petitioner
The authorities that have been commended by Mr. Sharma need to be appositely understood.	Reasoning
In Arumugam (supra), the Court was dealing with the issue of acceptance of the version of interested witnesses.	Reasoning
It has referred to Dalip Singh v. State of Punjab, AIR 1953 SC 364 State of Punjab v. Jagir Singh, Baljit Singh and Karam Singh, (1974) 3 SCC 277 Lehna v. State of Haryana, (2002) 3 SCC 76	Reasoning
Gangadhar Behera and others v. State of Orissa, (2002) 8 SCC 381 and State of Rajasthan v. Kalki and another, (1981) 2 SCC 752 and opined that while normal discrepancies do not corrode the credibility of a partys case, material discrepancies do so.	Reasoning
In Saravanan (supra), reiterating the principle, the Court held 18.	None
it has been said time and again by this Court that while appreciating the evidence of a witness, minor discrepancies on trivial matters without affecting the core of the prosecution case, ought not to prompt the court to reject evidence in its entirety.	None
Further, on the general tenor of the evidence given by the witness, the trial court upon appreciation of evidence forms an opinion about the credibility thereof, in the normal circumstances the appellate court would not be justified to review it once again without justifiable reasons.	None
It is the totality of the situation, which has to be taken note of.	None
Difference in some minor detail, which does not otherwise affect the core of the prosecution case, even if present, that itself would not prompt the court to reject the evidence on minor variations and discrepancies.	None
In Mahendra Pratap Singh (supra), the Court referred to the authority in Inder Singh and another v. State (Delhi Administration), (1978) 4 SCC 161 wherein it has been held thus Credibility of testimony, oral and circumstantial, depends considerably on a judicial evaluation of the totality, not isolated scrutiny.	None
While it is necessary that proof beyond reasonable doubt should be adduced in all criminal cases, it is not necessary that it should be perfect.	None
In the circumstance of the case, the Court, analyzing the evidence, opined From the above discussion of the evidence of the eyewitnesses including injured witnesses, their evidence does not at all inspire confidence and their evidence is running in conflict and contradiction with the medical evidence and ballistic experts report in regard to the weapon of offence, which was different from the one sealed in the police station.	None
The High Court has, in our opinion, disregarded the rule of judicial prudence in converting the order of acquittal to conviction.	None
In Sunil Kumar Sambhudayal Gupta (supra), while dealing with the issue of material contradictions, the Court held While appreciating the evidence, the court has to take into consideration whether the contradictions omissions had been of such magnitude that they may materially affer the trial.	None
Minor contradictions, inconsistencies, embellishments or improvements on trivial matters without effecting the core of the prosecution case should not be made a ground to reject the evidence in its entirety.	None
The trial court, after going through the entire evidence, must form an opinion about the credibility of the witnesses and the appellate court in normal course would not be justified in reviewing the same again without justifiable reasons.	None
(Vide State v. Saravanan)31.	None
Where the omission(s) amount to a contradiction, creating a serious doubt about the truthfulness of a witness and the other witness also makes material improvements before the court in order to make the evidence acceptable, it cannot be safe to rely upon such evidence.	None
(Vide State of Rajasthan v. Rajendra Singh, (2009) 11 SCC 106.)	None
32.	None
The discrepancies in the evidence of eyewitnesses, if found to be not minor in nature, may be a ground for disbelieving and discrediting their evidence.	None
In such circumstances, witnesses may not inspire confidence and if their evidence is found to be in conflict and contradiction with other evidence or with the statement already recorded, in such a case it cannot be held that the prosecution proved its case beyond reasonable doubt.	None
(Vide Mahendra Pratap Singh v. State of U.P. )	None
And again The courts have to label the category to which a discrepancy belongs.	None
While normal discrepancies do not corrode the credibility of a partys case, material discrepancies do so.	None
(See Syed Ibrahim v. State of A.P., (2006) 10 SCC 601 and Arumugam v. State) Mr. Luthra, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondentState, on the other hand, has disputed the stand of the appellants as regards the discrepancies in the statement of PW1.	None
According to him, the evidence of PW1 cannot be discarded on grounds which are quite specious.	None
The circumstances in entirety are to be appreciated.	Arguments of Respondent
He has placed reliance on the appreciation of the trial court and contended that the appreciation and analysis are absolutely impeccable.	Arguments of Respondent
The relied upon paragraph is as follows The complainant PW1 in his deposition had corroborated his complaint Ex.	Arguments of Respondent
PW1/A his statement Ex.	None
PW80/D1 recorded under section 161 Cr.P.C his supplementary statement Ex.	None
PW80/D3 and his statement Ex.PW1/B recorded under section 164 CrPC qua his visit to Select City Mall, Saket then moving to Munirka in an auto boarding the bus Ex.	Arguments of Respondent
P1 the incident throwing them out of the moving bus and attempt of accused to overrun the victims by their bus.	Arguments of Respondent
It was argued by the Ld.	Arguments of Respondent
Defence counsel that during his cross examination PW1 was confronted with his statement Ex.	Arguments of Respondent
PW1/A	Arguments of Respondent
qua the factum of not disclosing in it the user of iron rods the description of bus, the name of the assailants either in MLC Ex.	Arguments of Respondent
PW51/A or in his complaint Ex.PW1/A.	Arguments of Respondent
However, I do not consider such omissions as fatal as it is a settled law that FIR is not an encyclopedia of facts.	Arguments of Respondent
The victim is not precluded from explaining the facts in his subsequent statements.	Arguments of Respondent
It is not expected of a victim to disclose all the finer aspects of the incident in the FIR or in the brief history given to the doctor as doctor(s) are more concerned with treatment of the victims.	Arguments of Respondent
More so the victim who suffers from an incident, obviously, is in a state of shock and it is only when we moves in his comfort zone, he starts recollecting the events one by one and thus to stop the victim from elaborating the facts to describe the finer details, if left out earlier, would be too much.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus if PW1 had failed to give the description of the bus or of iron rods to the doctor in his MLC Ex.	Arguments of Respondent
PW51/A or in his complaint Ex.	Arguments of Respondent
PW1/A it shall not have any fatal effect on the prosecution case.	Arguments of Respondent
What is fatal is the material omissions, if any.	Arguments of Respondent
The evidence of PW1 is assailed contending that he is not a reliable witness.	None
During the crossexamination, his evidence was assailed contending that Ex.PW1/A is replete with contradictions and inconsistencies.	None
Taking us through the evidence, Mr. Singh has submitted that in his first statement, Ex.PW1/A, there were lot of omissions and contradictions and the improvements in his subsequent statements render the evidence wholly untrustworthy.	None
The appellants, in an attempt to assail the credibility of the testimony of PW1, inter alia, raised the contentions (i) Nondisclosure of the use of iron rod and (ii) the names of the assailants in the MLC in Ex.	None
PW51/A or in Ex.PW1/A.	Arguments of Respondent
However, the trial court held these assertions as nonfatal to PW1s testimony It is not expected of a victim to disclose all the finer aspects of the incident in the FIR or in the brief history given to the doctor as doctor(s) are more concerned with treatment of the victims.	None
More so the victim who suffers from an incident, obviously, is in a state of shock and it is only when we move in his comfort zone, he starts recollecting the events one by one and thus to stop the victim from elaborating the facts to describe the finer details, if left out earlier, would be too much.	Arguments of Respondent
The contentions assailing the evidence of PW1 does not merit acceptance, for at the time when he was first examined his friend (the prosecutrix) was critically injured and he was in a shocked mental condition.	Reasoning
The evidence of a witness is not to be disbelieved simply because he is a partisan witness or related to the prosecution.	Reasoning
It is to be weighed whether he was present or not and whether he is telling the truth or not.	None
The informant, PW1, in his deposition, has clearly spoken about the occurrence and also corroborated his complaint, Ex.PW1/A. The evidence of PW1 is unimpeachable in character and the roving crossexamination has not eroded his credibility.	None
It is necessary to mention here that PW1 was admitted in the casualty ward of Safdarjung Hospital.	None
As he was injured, he was medically examined by Dr. Sachin Bajaj, PW51, and as per the evidence, Ext.PW51/A, the following injuries were found on his body (a) 1cm X1 cm size clean lacertated wound over the vertex of scalp (head injury)(b) 0.5 X 1 cm size clean lacerated wound over left upper leg(c) 1X 0.2 cm size abrasion over right knee.	None
The injuries found on the person of PW1 and the fact that PW1 was injured in the same occurrence lends assurance to his testimony that he was present at the time of the occurrence along with the prosecutrix.	None
The evidence of an injured witness is entitled to a greater weight and the testimony of such a witness is considered to be beyond reproach and reliable.	Reasoning
Firm, cogent and convincing ground is required to discard the evidence of an injured witness.	Reasoning
It is to be kept in mind that the evidentiary value of an injured witness carries great weight.	None
In Mano Dutt and another v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (2012) 4 SCC 79 it was held as under We may merely refer to Abdul Sayeed v. State of M.P., (2010) 10 SCC 259 where this Court held as under28.	None
The question of the weight to be attached to the evidence of a witness that was himself injured in the course of the occurrence has been extensively discussed by this Court.	None
Where a witness to the occurrence has himself been injured in the incident, the testimony of such a witness is generally considered to be very reliable, as he is a witness that comes with a builtin guarantee of his presence at the scene of the crime and is unlikely to spare his actual assailant(s) in order to falsely implicate someone.	None
Convincing evidence is required to discredit an injured witness.	None
Vide Ramlagan Singh v. State of Bihar, (1973) 3 SCC 881 Malkhan Singh v. State of U.P., (1975) 3 SCC 311	None
Machhi Singh v. State of Punjab, (1983) 3 SCC 470 Appabhai v. State of Gujarat, 1988 Supp SCC 241 Bonkya v. State of Maharashtra, (1995) 6 SCC 447 Bhag Singh v. State of Punjab, (1997) 7 SCC 712 Mohar v. State of U.P., (2002) 7 SCC 606 Dinesh Kumar v. State of Rajasthan, (2008) 8 SCC 270 Vishnu v. State of Rajasthan, (2009) 10 SCC 477 Annareddy Sambasiva Reddy v. State of A.P., (2009) 12 SCC 546 and Balraje v. State of Maharashtra, (2010) 6 SCC 673.	None
29.	None
While deciding this issue, a similar view was taken in Jarnail Singh v. State of Punjab, (2009) 9 SCC 719 where this Court reiterated the special evidentiary status accorded to the testimony of an injured accused and relying on its earlier judgments held as under28.	None
Darshan Singh (PW 4) was an injured witness.	None
He had been examined by the doctor.	None
His testimony could not be brushed aside lightly.	None
He had given full details of the incident as he was present at the time when the assailants reached the tubewell.	None
In Shivalingappa Kallayanappa v. State of Karnataka, 1994 Supp (3) SCC 235 this Court has held that the deposition of the injured witness should be relied upon unless there are strong grounds for rejection of his evidence on the basis of major contradictions and discrepancies, for the reason that his presence on the scene stands established in case it is proved that he suffered the injury during the said incident.29.	None
In State of U.P. v. Kishan Chand, (2004) 7 SCC 629 a similar view has been reiterated observing that the testimony of a stamped witness has its own relevance and efficacy.	None
The fact that the witness sustained injuries at the time and place of occurrence, lends support to his testimony that he was present during the occurrence.	None
In case the injured witness is subjected to lengthy crossexamination and nothing can be elicited to discard his testimony, it should be relied upon (vide Krishan v. State of Haryana, (2006) 12 SCC 459 .	None
Thus, we are of the considered opinion that evidence of Darshan Singh (PW 4) has rightly been relied upon by the courts below.30.	None
The law on the point can be summarised to the effect that the testimony of the injured witness is accorded a special status in law.	None
This is as a consequence of the fact that the injury to the witness is an inbuilt guarantee of his presence at the scene of the crime and because the witness will not want to let his actual assailant go unpunished merely to falsely implicate a third party for the commission of the offence.	None
Thus, the deposition of the injured witness should be relied upon unless there are strong grounds for rejection of his evidence on the basis of major contradictions and discrepancies therein.	None
To the similar effect is the judgment of this Court in Balraje (supra).	None
As is manifest from the evidence, S.I. Pratibha Sharma, PW80, recorded the First Supplementary Statement under Section 161 CrPC of the informant, PW1, Awninder Pratap Singh about 730 a.m. on 17.12.2012.	None
Thereafter, PW1, the informant, took PW80, S.I. Pratibha Sharma, to the spot from where he and the prosecutrix had boarded the bus.	None
Apart from the injuries sustained, the presence of PW1 is further confirmed by the DNA analysis of 1.	None
the bloodstained mulberry leaves and grass that were collected from the spot in Mahipalpur where they were thrown off the bus (Ex.74/C )2.	None
the blood stains on Vinays jacket (Ex.68/2) (as per Seizure Memo Ex. 68/3), Pawans sweater (Ex. P.68/6) (as per Ex.	None
PW68/F ) and Akshays jeans (Ex P.68/6) tying them to the incident (from the trial court judgment) and3.	None
the unburnt cloth pieces belonging to PW1 that were recovered alongwith the ashes of the prosecutrixs clothing (Ex.	None
PW74/M).	None
The trial court judgment was fortified by the decisions of this Court in Pudhu Raja and another v. State Represented by Inspector of Police, (2012) 11 SCC 196 Jaswant Singh v. State of Haryana, (2000) 4 SCC 484 and Akhtar and others v. State of Uttaranchal, (2009) 13 SCC 722 on the law of material omissions and contradictions.	None
Concurringly, the High Court too observed that the defence had failed to demonstrate from the informants testimony such discrepancies, omissions and improvements that would have caused the High Court to reject such testimony after testing it on the anvil of the law laid down by this Court Their throbbing injuries and the rigors of the weather coupled with the state of their minds must have at that point of time brought forth their instinct of survival and self preservation.	None
The desire to have apprehended their assailants and to mete out just desserts to them could not have been their priority.	None
In this context, we may fruitfully reproduce a passage from State of U.P. v. M.K. Anthony, (1985) 1 SCC 505 While appreciating the evidence of a witness, the approach must be whether the evidence of the witness read as a whole appears to have a ring of truth.	None
Once that impression is formed, it is undoubtedly necessary for the court to scrutinise the evidence more particularly keeping in view the deficiencies, drawbacks and infirmities pointed out in the evidence as a whole and evaluate them to find out whether it is against the general tenor of the evidence given by the witness and whether the earlier evaluation of the evidence is shaken as to render it unworthy of belief.	None
Minor discrepancies on trivial matters not touching the core of the case, hypertechnical approach by taking sentences torn out of context here or there from the evidence, attaching importance to some technical error committed by the investigating officer not going to the root of the matter would not ordinarily permit rejection of the evidence as a whole.	None
In Harijana Thirupala v. Public Prosecutor, High Court of A.P., (2002) 6 SCC 470 it has been ruled that 11.	None
In appreciating the evidence the approach of the court must be integrated not truncated or isolated.	None
In other words, the impact of the evidence in totality on the prosecution case or innocence of the accused has to be kept in mind in coming to the conclusion as to the guilt or otherwise of the accused.	None
In reaching a conclusion about the guilt of the accused, the court has to appreciate, analyse and assess the evidence placed before it by the yardstick of probabilities, its intrinsic value and the animus of witnesses.	None
In Ugar Ahir v. State of Bihar, AIR 1965 SC 277 a threeJudge Bench held The maxim falsus in uno, falsu in omnibus (false in one thing, false in everything) is neither a sound rule of law nor a rule of practice.	None
Hardly one comes across a witness whose evidence does not contain a grain of untruth or at any rate exaggerations, embroideries or embellishments.	None
It is, therefore, the duty of the court to scrutinise the evidence carefully and, in terms of the felicitous metaphor, separate the grain from the chaff.	None
But, it cannot obviously disbelieve the substratum of the prosecution case or the material parts of the evidence and reconstruct a story of its own out of the rest.	None
In Krishna Mochi v. State of Bihar, (2002) 6 SCC 81 the Court ruled that 32.	None
The court while appreciating the evidence should not lose sight of these realities of life and cannot afford to take an unrealistic approach by sitting in an ivory tower.	None
I find that in recent times the tendency to acquit an accused easily is galloping fast.	None
It is very easy to pass an order of acquittal on the basis of minor points raised in the case by a short judgment so as to achieve the yardstick of disposal.	None
Some discrepancy is bound to be there in each and every case which should not weigh with the court so long it does not materially affect the prosecution case.	None
In case discrepancies pointed out are in the realm of pebbles, the court should tread upon it, but if the same are boulders, the court should not make an attempt to jump over the same.	None
These days when crime is looming large and humanity is suffering and the society is so much affected thereby, duties and responsibilities of the courts have become much more.	None
Now the maxim let hundred guilty persons be acquitted, but not a single innocent be convicted is, in practice, changing the world over and courts have been compelled to accept that society suffers by wrong convictions and it equally suffers by wrong acquittals.	None
I find that this Court in recent times has conscientiously taken notice of these facts from time to time.	None
In Inder Singh (supra), Krishna Iyer, J. laid down that Proof beyond reasonable doubt is a guideline, not a fetish and guilty man cannot get away with it because truth suffers some infirmity when projected through human processes.	None
In the case of State of U.P. v. Anil Singh, 1988 (Supp.)	None
SCC 686 it was held that a Judge does not preside over a criminal trial merely to see that no innocent man is punished.	None
A Judge also presides to see that a guilty man does not escape.	None
One is as important as the other.	None
Both are public duties which the Judge has to perform.	None
In Mohan Singh and another v. State of M.P., (1999) 2 SCC 428 this Court has held The question is how to test the veracity of the prosecution story especially when it is with some variance with the medical evidence.	None
Mere variance of the prosecution story with the medical evidence, in all cases, should not lead to the conclusion, inevitably to reject the prosecution story.	None
Efforts should be made to find the truth, this is the very object for which courts are created.	None
To search it out, the courts have been removing the chaff from the grain.	None
It has to disperse the suspicious cloud and dust out the smear of dust as all these things clog the very truth.	None
So long as chaff, cloud and dust remain, the criminals are clothed with this protective layer to receive the benefit of doubt.	None
So it is a solemn duty of the courts, not to merely conclude and leave the case the moment suspicions are created.	None
It is the onerous duty of the court, within permissible limit, to find out the truth.	None
It means on one hand, no innocent man should be punished but on the other hand, to see no person committing an offence should get scotfree.	None
If in spite of such effort, suspicion is not dissolved, it remains writ at large, benefit of doubt has to be credited to the accused.	None
For this, one has to comprehend the totality of the facts and the circumstances as spelled out through the evidence, depending on the facts of each case by testing the credibility of eyewitnesses including the medical evidence, of course, after excluding those parts of the evidence which are vague and uncertain.	None
There is no mathematical formula through which the truthfulness of a prosecution or a defence case could be concretised.	None
It would depend on the evidence of each case including the manner of deposition and his demeans (sic), clarity, corroboration of witnesses and overall, the conscience of a judge evoked by the evidence on record.	None
So courts have to proceed further and make genuine efforts within the judicial sphere to search out the truth and not stop at the threshold of creation of doubt to confer benefit of doubt.	None
Keeping the aforesaid aspects in view, we shall now proceed to test the submission of the learned counsel for the appellants and the learned amicus curiae on the issue whether the testimony of PW1 deserves acceptance being reliable or not.	None
It is no doubt true that in the earlier statement of PW1, that is, Ex.PW1/A, there are certain omissions but the main thing to be seen is whether the omissions go to the root of the matter or pertain to insignificant aspects.	None
The evidence of PW1 is not to be disbelieved simply because there were certain omissions.	None
The trial Court as well as the High Court found his evidence credible and trustworthy and we find no reason to take a different view.	Reasoning
The case of the prosecution is attacked contending that PW1 is a planted witness and that he keeps on improving his version.	None
It is submitted that PW1 is not reliable as had he been present at the time of occurrence, he would have endeavoured to save the victim and the nature of injuries as mentioned in Ex.	None
PW51/A on the person of PW1 raises serious doubt about his presence at the time of occurrence.	None
The prosecutrix and PW1 were surrounded and attacked by at least six accused persons.	None
As narrated by PW1, he was pinned down by two of the assailants while the others committed rape on the prosecutrix on the rear side of the bus.	Reasoning
The accused persons were in a group and were also armed with iron rods.	None
PW1 was held by them.	None
It would not have been possible for PW1 to resist the number of accused persons and save the prosecutrix.	None
The evidence of PW1 cannot be doubted on the ground that he had not interfered with the occurrence.	None
The improvements made in the supplementary statement need not necessarily render PW1s evidence untrustworthy more so when PW1 has no reason to falsely implicate the accused.	None
Learned counsel for the State has highlighted that the version of PW1 is absolutely consistent and the trial court as well as the High Court has correctly relied upon his testimony.	Arguments of Respondent
He has drawn our attention to the version of PW1 in the FIR, the statement recorded under Section 164 CrPC and his testimony before the trial court.	Arguments of Respondent
We have given anxious consideration and perused the FIR, supplementary statements recorded under Section 164 CrPC and appreciated the evidence in court and we find that there is no justification or warrant to treat the version of the witness as inconsistent.	None
The consistency is writ large and the witness, as we perceive, is credible.	Reasoning
Mr. Luthra, learned senior counsel, further contested the argument advanced on behalf of the appellants as regards the discrepancies so far as PW1 is concerned.	Arguments of Respondent
As regards the items stolen, it is recorded in the FIR that the accused persons stole the informants Samsung Galaxy Mobile phone bearing 7827917720 and 9540034561 his wallet containing Rs. 1000, ICICI debit card, Citi Bank Credit Card, ID Card, one silver ring, one gold ring and took off all his clothes, i.e., khakhi coloured blazer, grey sweater, black jeans, black Hush Puppies shoes and they also stole the prosecutrixs mobile phone with number 9818358144.	Arguments of Respondent
His statement recorded under Section 164 CrPC states that the accused snatched the Samsung Galaxy SDuos Mobile, one more mobile phone of Samsung, one purse with Rs. 1000, one Citibank credit card, ICICI Debit Card, Company ICard, Delhi Metro Card and also snatched black jeans, one silver ring, one gold ring, Hush Puppies shoes.	Arguments of Respondent
They also snatched the prosecutrixs Nokia mobile phone and grey colour purse and both the wrist watches.	Arguments of Respondent
Before the trial court, he deposed that they snatched both the rings, shoes, purse containing cards and cash, socks and belt they took off all his clothes and left him in an underwear the accused had also taken off all the prosecutrixs clothes and snatched all her belongings including grey purse containing Axis bank card.	Arguments of Respondent
PW1 also identified Hush Puppies shoes, Ex. P2, Sonata watch, Ex. P3, metro card, Ex. P5, Samsung Galaxy Duos, Ex.	None
P6, and currency notes, Ex. P7.	None
As regards the weapon of assault, in the FIR and in the Section 164 statement, rod was recorded as weapon of assault and in his testimony before the trial court, PW1 deposed that the weapon of assault was iron rods.	Arguments of Respondent
So far as throwing from the bus is concerned, it is recorded in the FIR that the other accused persons told the driver to drive the bus at a fast speed and then tried to throw the informant from the back door of the bus, however, the back door of the bus did not open.	Arguments of Respondent
Then they threw both the informant and the prosecutrix from the moving bus near NH 8 Mahipalpur on the side of the road.	Arguments of Respondent
His statement recorded under Section 164 CrPC states that the bus driver was driving the bus at a fast speed on being told by the other accused and he heard them saying that the girl had died and to throw her off the bus.	Arguments of Respondent
They then took the informant and the prosecutrix to the rear door of the bus but could not open the door and, therefore, dragged them to the front door of the bus and threw them out.	Arguments of Respondent
The bus driver turned the bus in such a manner after throwing them, that if the informant had not pulled the prosecutrix, then the bus would have run over her.	None
PW1 has deposed before the trial court that he heard one of the accused saying mar gayee, mar gayee the accused were exhorting that the informant and the prosecutrix should not be left alive the accused persons pulled the informant near the rear door and put the prosecutrix on him.	None
The rear door was closed, so they dragged both the informant and the prosecutrix to the front door they were thrown off opposite Hotel Delhi 37 after they were thrown, the accused persons turned the bus and tried to crush them under the wheels.	Arguments of Respondent
As regards the naming description of the accused, the FIR recorded that the accused were aged between 2530 years one of them had a flat nose and was the youngest one of them wore a red banian and they were wearing pant and shirt and the accused were named as Ram Singh, Thakur, Mukesh, Vinay and Pawan.	Arguments of Respondent
In the statement, it was recorded that he saw a dark coloured man who was being called Mukesh, Mukesh he overheard them calling each other as Ram Singh, Thakur and the other three were addressing each other Pawan and Vinay and taking the name of JCL.	Arguments of Respondent
In his testimony, it is recorded that he identified A2, Mukesh, as Driver, A1, Ram Singh, and A3, Akshay, as persons sitting in the drivers cabin and identified A4, Vinay, and A5, Pawan, as persons sitting in the bus.95.	Arguments of Respondent
As regards the minor contradictions omissions, the trial court has placed reliance upon Pudhu Raja (supra) and Jaswant Singh (supra) and treated the version of PW1 as reliable.	Arguments of Respondent
The testimony of PW1 has been placed reliance upon by both the Courts and on an anxious and careful scrutiny of the same, we do not perceive any reason to differ with the said view.	Arguments of Respondent
As we find, the trial court has come to the conclusion that the incident has been aptly described by PW1, the injured.	Reasoning
The injuries on his person do show that he was present in the bus at the time of the incident.	Reasoning
His presence is further confirmed by the DNA analysis.	Reasoning
Suffice it to say for the present, the contradictions in the statement, Ex.PW1/A, are not material enough to destroy the substratum of the prosecution case.	Reasoning
From the studied analysis of the evidence of PW1, it is the only inevitable conclusion because the appreciation is founded on yardstick of consideration of totality of evidence and its intrinsic value on proper assessment.	None
Recovery of the bus and the CCTV footage The endeavour of the prosecution was to first check the route and get a clue of the bus.	None
For the aforesaid purpose, the CCTV footage becomes quite relevant.	None
The story starts from the Select City Walk Mall, Saket and hence, we have to start from there.	None
As per the case of the prosecution, the informant and the prosecutrix had gone to Select City Walk Mall, Saket to see a film.	None
The CCTV footage produced by PW25, Rajender Singh Bisht, in a CD, Ex.PW25/C1 and PW25/C2, and the photographs, Ex.PW25/B1 to Ex.	None
PW 25/B7, are evident of the fact that the informant and the prosecutrix were present at Saket till 857 p.m.	None
The certificate under S ection 65B of the Evidence Act with respect to the said footage is proved by PW26, Shri Sandeep Singh, vide Ex.	None
PW26/A. The informant as well as the prosecutrix gave brief description of the entire incident in their MLCs which led the investigating team to the Hotel near Delhi Airport where the prosecutrix and the informant were dumped after the incident.	None
PW67, Pramod Kumar Jha, the owner of the Hotel at Delhi Airport, was examined by the investigating officers regarding the present incident.	None
He handed over the pen drive containing the CCTV footage, Ex.P67/1, and the CD, Ex.P67/2 to the I.O. which were seized vide seizure memo Ex.	None
PW67/A. The CCTV footage and the photographs were identified by PW67, Pramod Jha, PW74.	None
SI Subhash Chand, and Gautam Roy, PW76, from CFSL during their examination in Court.	None
The CCTV footage twice showed a white coloured bus having yellow and green stripes at 934 p.m. and again at 953 p.m.	None
The bus exactly matched the description of the offending bus given by the informant.	None
It had the word Yadav written on one of its sides and its front tyre on the left side did not have a wheel cap.	None
PW78, the S.H.O., Inspector Anil Sharma, has further deposed that the said CCTV footage seized vide seizure memo Ex.	None
PW67/A was sent to the CFSL through SI Sushil Sawariya, PW54, on 02.01.2013, and this part of the testimony of PW78 is corroborated by the testimony of PW54, SI Sushil Sawaria, and PW77, the MHC(M).	None
Thereafter, on 03.01.2013, the report of the CFSL was received.	None
In fact, the trial court had assured itself of the correct identification of the bus by playing the said CCTV footage shown in the pen drive, Ex.PW67/1, and the CD, Ex.PW67/2, during the crossexamination of PW67, Pramod Jha.	None
Learned counsel Mr. Singh has asserted that bus, Ex. P1, has been falsely implicated in the present case as is evidenced from the recovery of the CCTV footage.	Arguments of Petitioner
In an attempt to discredit the CCTV footage, he pointed out that only the CCTV recording alleged to be of this bus was recorded and not of all other white buses that had Yadav written on them.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel for the defence subsequently maintained that the CCTV footage cannot be relied upon as the same has been tampered with by the investigating officers.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW76, Gautam Roy, HOD, Computer Cell, Forensic Division, has testified that on 02.01.2013, he had received two sealed parcels sealed with the seal of PS and the seals tallied with the specimen seals provided.	None
He marked the blue coloured pen drive found in parcel No.1 as Ex.1 and the Moser Baer CD found in the second parcel as Ex.2.	None
He further testified that both the exhibits were played by him in the computer and the bus was seen twice, at 934 p.m. and 954 p.m.	None
He had photographed all these three by freezing the pen drive and the CD and these photographs were compared by him with the photographs taken by the photographer, PW79, P.K. Gottam, which he had summoned.	None
The witness testified that he had prepared the three comparison charts in this regard as Ex.PW76/B, PW76/C and PW76/D, and his detailed report as Ex.	None
PW76/E. The footage taken in a CD and pen drive was sealed in PW67s presence and as the recording was automatic data being fed on regular basis into the hard disk, the question of tampering with the same could not arise.	None
PW79, P.K. Gottam, from CFSL, CBI, has stated in his examination that he took photographs of the bus bearing No.DL1PC0149 parked at Thyagraj Stadium, INA, New Delhi from different angles on 17.12.2012 and 18.12.2012 and handed over the same to PW76.	None
The said photographs were marked as B1 in Ex.	None
PW76/B as C1 and C2 in Ex.	None
PW76/C	None
and as D1 in Ex.PW76/D. He has deposed as to the genuineness of the photographs by deposing that the software used for developing the photographs was tamper proof.	None
Once it is proved before the court through the testimony of the experts that the photographs and the CCTV footage are not tampered with, there is no reason or justification to perceive the same with the lens of doubt.	None
The opinion of the CFSL expert contained in the CFSL report marked as Ex.PW76/E authenticates that there was no tampering or editing in both the exhibits, Ex.P67/1 and Ex.P 67/2, and that a bus having identical patterns as the one parked at Thyagraj Stadium is seen in the CCTV footage, which includes the word Yadav written on one side, back side dent (left) and absence of wheel cover on the front left side.	None
The contents of the report is also admitted to be true by its author, PW76, Gautam Roy.	None
Quite apart from that, it is perceptible that the High Court, in order to satisfy itself, had got the CCTV footage played during the hearing and found the same to be creditworthy and acceptable.	None
As the narrative proceeds, the next step was to find out the bus.	None
The identity of the bus in the CCTV footage was known and the said knowledge could propel the prosecution to move for recovery.	None
We may start from the beginning.	None
The bus, Ex. P1, bearing registration No. DL1PC0149, is the vehicle alleged to have been involved in the incident.	None
PW74, SI Subhash Chand, on 17.12.2012, along with PW1, the informant, and PW80, WSI Pratibha Singh, went to Munirka bus stand from where the victims had boarded the alleged bus, Ex. P1, and then to Mahipalpur to the spot where both the victims were thrown off the bus on 16.12.2012.	None
After the collection of exhibits from the spot, PW74 and PW80 went to the hotels opposite the spot having CCTV cameras installed and amongst those was Hotel Delhi 37.	None
At the said hotel, the informant PW1 identified the bus they had boarded in the CCTV footage of the road and the relevant footage of the recording was taken in a pen drive and CD and was handed over to the Investigating Officer as Ex.	None
PW67/A. Later in the day, secret information was received by PW80 that the alleged bus was parked at Sector 3, R.K. Puram.	None
PW74 accompanied PW80 and PW65, Ct Kripal Singh, to Ravidass Camp where a bus matching the description given by PW1 was parked near the Gurudwara.	None
It was white in colour with Yadav written on the side.	None
When the police approached the bus, A1, Ram Singh, got down from it and started to run he was later apprehended in a chase by PW74 and PW65.	None
From A1, the fitness certificate, PUC and other documents regarding the registration of the vehicle DL1PC0149 were seized as Ex.	None
PW74/I, PW74/J and PW74/K. The entry door of the bus was ahead of the front wheel and the wheel cap was missing from the front tyre.	None
After recovery of the burnt clothes at the behest of A1, he was sent to the police station with PW65.	None
PW42, Ct.	None
Suresh Kumar, was called to the spot and he drove the bus to Thyagraj Stadium around 545 p.m. on the same day.	Reasoning
An inspection of the bus was conducted inside the stadium and the CFSL team lifted Ex.	None
PW74/P. Thereafter, PW32, SI Vishal Chaudhary, and PW33, SI Vikas Rana, were called from police station Kotla Mubarakpur to guard the bus.	None
Mr. Singh has raised the following issues with respect to the identification and recovery of the alleged bus1.	Arguments of Petitioner
CCTV footage was not properly examined to check all possible buses plying on the said route2.	Arguments of Petitioner
The bus was taken to Thyagraj Stadium instead of the Police Station to avoid the media and to better facilitate the planting of evidence and3.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW81, Dinesh Yadav, owner of the Bus was in judicial custody for 6 months before his examination in the Court and he was so detained in custody to bring pressure upon him.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Singh has made bald allegation that the bus, Ex P1, was falsely implicated and that all the DNA evidence recovered therefrom was actually planted.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contends that the bus, Ex. P1, was sent to Thyagraj Stadium instead of the concerned Police Station, PS Vasant Vihar, with the deliberate intention of avoiding the media attention so that the evidence could be planted easily.	Arguments of Petitioner
This argument is in furtherance of his false implication theory.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has, however, provided no further specific assertions to cast a doubt in our mind that the police has planted the evidence in the bus.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Luthra, in his turn, relying on the decision of the Delhi High Court in Manjit Singh v. State, 214 (2014) DLT 646 has placed statistics before us pointing to the paucity of physical space in police stations across the city.	None
In Manjit Singh (supra), the High Court had ordered the Delhi Police to furnish data regarding case properties with the Police.	None
The High Court noted that there was an accumulation of 2,86,741 case properties including 25,547 vehicles, out of which as many as 2,479 properties are lying in public places outside the police stations.	None
Given the state of affairs, the submission put forth by Mr. Luthra is acceptable.	None
There is dearth of space inside the police stations in Delhi and the use of Thyagraj Stadium as parking lot in the present case does not necessarily mean that there was any mala fide intention on the part of the investigating agency without any specific assertion to advance the said bald allegation.105.	Reasoning
It may also be noted that on 17.12.2012, PW42, Ct.	Reasoning
Suresh Kumar, drove the bus from Ravidass Camp to Thyagraj Stadium around 545 p.m. along with PW74 and PW80.	Reasoning
About 615 p.m., PW32, SI Vishal Chaudhary, along with Ct.	Reasoning
Amit, both of PS Kotla Mubarakpur, were sent to Thyagraj Stadium where on the instructions of PW80, SI Pratibha, PW32, guarded the bus till 800 a.m. the next day.	Reasoning
On 18.12.2012, he handed over the charge of guarding the bus to PW33, SI Vikas Rana, PS Kotla Mubarakpur, and he guarded the bus till 830 p.m., until after the CFSL team left.	Reasoning
Thus, the criticism as regards the parking of the bus at Thyagraj Stadium and not at the Police Station pales into insignificance.	None
Reliability of the testimony of PW81 (the owner of the bus) Having dealt with the recovery of the bus, it is necessary to dwell upon the contention put forth by the learned counsel for the appellants which pertains to the acceptability and reliability of the testimony of PW81, Dinesh Yadav.	None
The principal contention in this regard is that PW81, Dinesh Yadav, the owner of the bus, was in judicial custody and, therefore, his version in the court is under tremendous pressure as he was desirous of getting a bail order to enjoy his liberty.	Arguments of Petitioner
Highlighting this aspect, it is urged by Mr. Sharma and Mr. Singh, learned counsel for the appellants, that the testimony of the said witness deserves to be totally discarded.	None
PW81, Dinesh Yadav, is a transporter and owns 8 to 10 buses including Ex. P1.	None
He runs the buses under the name Yadav Travels.	None
He was examined by the prosecution to prove that A1, A2 and A3 are connected with the bus, Ex. P1.	None
In his examination, PW81 admitted that the word Yadav is written across Ex.	None
P1 and that it is white in colour with yellow stripes.	None
PW81 stated that A1, Ram Singh (since deceased), was the driver of the said bus in December 2012, A3, Akshay Kumar Singh, was his helper and the bus was usually parked by A1, Ram Singh, in R.K. Puram, near his residence.	None
The bus was attached to Birla Vidya Niketan School, Pushp Vihar, New Delhi to ferry students in the morning and also to a Company, M s Net Ambit, Sector 132, Noida, to take its employees from Delhi to Noida.	None
On 17.12.2012, the bus went from Delhi to Sector 132, Noida to take the staff of M s Net Ambit to their office and PW81 was informed by A1, Ram Singh, or A2, Mukesh, that the bus was checked at the DND toll plaza on their route to Noida.	None
Learned counsel Mr. Singh has asserted that PW81 was kept in judicial custody to obtain a statement favourable to the prosecution in the present case.	None
In this aspect, it is noted that PW81 also stated that he was kept in judicial custody.	None
The arrest was, however, not made in the present case it was in connection with another case in relation to providing incorrect address to the Transport Authority.	Reasoning
He was lodged in jail in case FIR No. 02/2013 of PS Civil Lines under Sections 420, 468, 471 IPC.	None
PW81 had provided his friends address as his own at the time of registration and was arrested on a complaint made by the Transport Authority.	None
He was named in the chargesheet in the present case and was cited as a witness at serial No. 36 but was dropped by the prosecution on 28.05.2013.	Reasoning
Later on, his examination was sought by way of an application under Section 311 CrPC.	Reasoning
The application was allowed by the trial court order dated 03.07.2013 on the ground that he was the owner of the bus and his examination was necessary to prove as to whom he had handed over the custody of the bus on the night of the incident, i.e., 16.12.2012.	None
It is limpid from the deposition of PW81 that he was in judicial custody for a separate offence and, therefore, it is difficult to accede to the argument advanced by Mr. Singh that he was under pressure to support the version of the prosecution.	None
Apart from the above, the prosecution, in order to place A1 as the driver of the bus, Ex. P1, has examined PW16, Rajeev Jakhmola.	None
PW16, Manager (Admn) of Birla Vidya Niketan School, Pushp Vihar, handled their transport.	None
In his examination, he stated that PW81, Dinesh Yadav, had provided the school with 7 buses on contract basis including Ex.	None
P1 and that A1, Ram Singh, was its driver.	None
He also submitted a copy of Ram Singhs Driving Licence to the Police along with the copy of the agreement of the school with the owner of the bus, copy of the RC, copy of the fitness certificate, certificate of third party technical inspection, pollution certificate, two copies of certificatecumpolicy schedule (Insurance), copy of certificate of training undergone by accused Ram Singh, copy of permit and list of the transporters, collectively as Ex.	None
PW16/A. Thus, according to the prosecution, from the evidence of PW16, Rajeev Jakhmola, and PW81, Dinesh Yadav, it stands proved that the bus in question was routinely driven by Ram Singh.	None
When an argument was raised before the High Court over the veracity of PW81s testimony, it recorded as under We are constrained to say that there is no substance in the aforesaid contention of Mr. Sharma for the reason that PW81 Dinesh Yadav, the owner of the bus bearing registration No.DL1PC0149, in which the offence was committed, has categorically stated in his crossexamination that bus Ex.	None
P1 was being used for ferrying the students in the morning and thereafter as a chartered bus for taking the officials of M s. Net Ambit from Delhi to Noida.	None
He further stated in crossexamination that on 17.12.2012, the bus took the staff of M s. Net Ambit from Delhi to Sector 132, Noida, UP.	None
Quite apparently, therefore, accused Ram Singh as disclosed by him had thrown the SIM card nearabout the bus stand of Sector 37, where according to PW44 Mohd.	None
Zeeshan, it was found at the noon hour.	None
Since it is not in dispute that accused Ram Singh was the driver of the bus and this fact stands fully established by the evidence on record, Noida was possibly found by him to be the safest destination to dispose of the SIM card.	None
The aforesaid analysis commends our approval because we, having analysed the said aspect on our own, have arrived at the same conclusion.	None
There is no trace of doubt that the testimony of the said witness withstands close scrutiny and there is no reason to treat it with any kind of disapproval.	None
That apart, the evidence of PW16 corroborates the testimony of the owner of the bus.	None
Personal search and statements of disclosure leading to recovery Learned counsel for the appellants have seriously questioned the arrest of the accused persons and the recoveries made pursuant to the said arrest.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is the stand of the prosecution that pursuant to the arrest of all the accused A1 to A5, there were disclosure statements recorded under Section 27 of the Evidence Act which led to recoveries of incriminating articles such as objects belonging to the victims as also objects which have been linked orally or scientifically (such as through DNA profiling) to the prosecutrix and PW1.	None
These material objects recovered are used to link the convicts with the crime and corroborate the version of the eye witness PW1 and the dying declaration of the deceased victim.	None
First, we shall refer to the arrest of Ram Singh and the recoveries made at his instance.	None
As already stated, on 17.12.2012, PW80, SI Pratibha Sharma, had spotted accused Ram Singh sitting in the offending bus, Ex. P1, which was parked at Ravidass Camp, R.K. Puram, New Delhi.	None
On seeing the police, Ram Singh got down from the bus and started running.	None
He was chased and instantly arrested at 415 p.m. vide memo Ex.	None
PW74/D and subsequently, his personal search was conducted vide memo Ex.	None
PW74/E and his disclosure Ex.	None
PW74/F was recorded.	None
Notably, Ram Singh has led to several important discoveries and seizures from inside the bus.	None
Accused Mukesh was apprehended on 18.12.2012 from village Karoli, Rajasthan, by a team headed by PW58, SI Arvind.	None
He produced accused Mukesh before PW80, SI Pratibha Sharma, the Investigating Officer, at Safdarjung Hospital in muffled face alongwith a mobile, Samsung Galaxy Duos, Ex.	None
P6, seized by her vide memo Ex.	None
PW58/A. The accused was arrested at 630 p.m. on 18122012 by her vide memo Ex.	None
PW58/B and his personal search was conducted vide memo Ex.	None
PW58/C. The accused pointed the Munirka bus stand vide memo Ex.	None
PW68/K and the dumping spot vide memo Ex.	None
PW68/L.	None
This Samsung Galaxy phone was identified to be that of PW1, the informant.	None
On 23.12.2012, accused Mukesh led the police to Anupam Apartment, garage No. 2, Saidulajab, Saket, New Delhi, and got recovered a green colour Tshirt, Ex.P48/1, on which the word play boy was printed a grey colour pant, Ex.P48/2, and a jacket, Ex.P48/3, of bluish grey colour, all seized vide memo Ex.	None
PW48/B. The Investigating Officer also prepared the site plan, Ex.	None
PW80/I, of the place of recovery.	None
On 24.12.2012, accused Mukesh also got prepared a route chart Ex.	None
PW80/H. On 18.12.2012, accused Ram Singh led the Investigating Officer to Ravidass Camp and pointed towards his associates, namely, accused Vinay and accused Pawan.	None
Accused Pawan was apprehended and arrested about 115 p.m. vide memo Ex.PW60/A his disclosure, Ex.PW60/G, was recorded and his personal search was conducted vide memo Ex.PW60/C. Accused Pawan Gupta pointed out the Munirka bus stand and a pointing out memo Ex.	None
PW68/I was prepared.	None
He also pointed the dumping spot and memo Ex.	None
PW68/J was prepared in this regard.	None
On 19.12.2012, from accused Pawan Gupta, PW80, got effected the following recoveries Wrist watch Ex.	None
P3 seized vide memo Ex.	None
PW68/G(b) Two currency notes of denomination of Rs.	None
500/ Ex.P7 colly were seized vide memo Ex.	None
PW68/G(c) Clothes worn by the accused at the time of the incident seized vide memo Ex.	None
PW68/F and(d)Black coloured sweater having grey stripes with label Abercrombie and Fitch Ex.P68/6 and a pair of cocacola colour pants Ex.	None
P68/7 colly underwear having elastic labeled Redzone Ex.	None
P68/8 and a pair of sports shoes with Columbus inscribed on them as Ex.P68/9.	None
It may be stated here that Sonata wrist watch, Ex. P3, was identified as that of PW1.	None
On 18.12.2012, about 130 p.m., accused Vinay Sharma was arrested in front of Ravidass Mandir, Main Road, Sector3, R.K. Puram, New Delhi vide arrest memo Ex.PW60/B and his disclosure Ex.PW60/H was also recorded.	None
He pointed out the Munirka bus stand from where the victims were picked up vide memo Ex.	None
PW68/I and he also pointed out Mahipalpur Flyover, the place where the victims were thrown out of the moving bus vide pointing out memo Ex.	None
PW68/J. On 19.12.2012, he led to the following recoveries Hush Puppies shoes Ex.	None
P2 seized vide memo Ex.PW68/C and(b)Nokia mobile phone Ex.P68/5 of the prosecutrix seized vide memo Ex.	None
PW68/D. Hush Puppies shoes, Ex. P2, were identified to be that of PW1, the informant.	None
Nokia Mobile Phone, Ex. P68/5, was identified to be that of the prosecutrix.	None
On 19.12.2012, pursuant to his supplementary disclosure statement Ex.	None
PW68/A, the following recoveries were made by the accused vide seizure memo Ex.	None
PW68/B One blue coloured jeans having monogram of Expert Ex.P68/1(b)A black coloured sports jacket with white stripes and a monogram of moments as Ex.P68/3 and a pair of rubber slippers as Ex.P68/4.	None
During the personal search of Vinay Sharma, the following article was recovered Nokia mobile phone with IMEI No. 35413805830821418 belonging to the accused, which was returned to him on superdari vide order dated 442013 On 21.12.2012, about 915 p.m., accused Akshay Kumar Singh Thakur was arrested from village Karmalahang, P.S. Tandwa, District Aurangabad, Bihar vide memo Ex.	None
PW53/A and on 21.12.2012 and 22.12.2012, his disclosures, Ex.	None
PW53/I and Ex.	None
PW53/D, respectively were recorded.	None
On 22.12.2012, he got effected the following recoveries from the residence of his brother, Abhay, from the rented house of one Tara Chand, village Naharpur, Gurgaon, viz Blood stained jeans (Ex.P53/3) worn by the accused at the time of the incident, recovered from a black bag (Ex.P53/2)ii.	None
A blue black coloured Nokia mobile phone (Ex.P53/1)iii.	None
Bloodstained red coloured banian (vest).	None
On 27.12.2012, he got recovered the informants Metro card Ex.P5 and the informants silver ring, Ex.P4, from House No. 1943, 3rd Floor, Gali No.3, Rajiv Nagar, Sector14, Gurgaon, Haryana.	None
Learned counsel for the appellants and learned amicus, Mr. Hegde, have vehemently criticized the arrest and recoveries that have been made or effected.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged by Mr. Sharma that the appellant Mukesh was not in custody when the recovery took place and additionally, he was not produced before the nearest Magistrate within twentyfour hours from the time of detention.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Luthra, in his turn, would submit that the said accused was formally arrested at Delhi and, thereafter, the recovery on the basis of his disclosure took place.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Singh, learned counsel, contended that the disclosure statements which have been recorded by the police do tantamount to confessional statements relating to the involvement and commission of the crime.	Arguments of Petitioner
This argument requires to be squarely dealt with.	None
For appreciating the said submission, it is necessary to appreciate the interse relationship between the accused persons and thereafter dwell upon the process of the arrest and judge the acceptability on the anvil of the precedents in the field.	None
As the evidence brought on record would show, the accused persons were known to each other.	None
Mukesh, A2, and deceased Ram Singh, A1, were brothers.	None
According to the testimony of Dinesh Yadav, PW81, Ram Singh was the driver of the bus and A3, Akshay, was working as a helper in the bus.	None
The same is manifest from the Attendance Register, Ex. P81/2, seized vide Ex.	None
PW80/K and the Driving License of A1, Ram Singh, Ex. P74/4, seized vide Ex. PW74/1.	None
From the testimony of PW13, Brijesh Gupta, and PW14, Jiwant Shah, it is evident that Ram Singh and Mukesh were brothers.	None
From the evidence of Champa Devi, DW5, mother of Vinay, A4, it is quite clear that Vinay, Pawan, A5, and Ram Singh, A1, were known to each other.	None
Mukesh, in his statement under Section 313 CrPC, has admitted that he and Ram Singh are brothers.	None
A3, Akshay, in his statement under Section 313 CrPC, has admitted that he was working with Ram Singh in the bus, Ex.	None
P1, as a helper.	None
He has also admitted that he knew Ram Singh and there had been altercation on 16.12.2012 with A1, Ram Singh.	None
A5, Pawan, in his statement under Section 313 CrPC, admitted that he was a witness to the quarrel between A4, Vinay, and A1, Ram Singh.	None
From the aforesaid evidence, it is luminous that all the accused persons were closely associated with each other.	None
Having dealt with this facet, we shall now proceed to meet the criticism advanced by the learned counsel for the appellants with regard to the recoveries and the disclosure statements that led to the discoveries.	None
Assailing the acceptability of the arrest and the disclosure statements leading to the recoveries, Mr. Sharma and Mr. Singh have contended that the materials brought on record cannot be taken aid of for any purpose since the items seized have been planted at the places of recovery and a contrived version has been projected in court.	Arguments of Petitioner
That apart, it is submitted that the recoveries are gravely doubtful inasmuch as the prosecution has not seized all the articles from one accused on one occasion but on various dates.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have cleared the maze as regards the arrest and copiously noted the manner of arrest of the accused persons and their leading to recoveries.	None
Be it noted, recovery is a part of investigation and permissible under Section 27 of the Evidence Act.	None
However, Mr. Sharma has raised a contention that this Court should take note of the fact that Section 27 of the Evidence Act has become a powerful weapon in the hands of the prosecution to rope in any citizen.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said submission, as we perceive, is quite broad and specious.	None
It is open to the defence to find fault with recovery and the manner in which it is done and its relevance.	None
It is not permissible to advance an argument that Section 27 of the Evidence Act is constantly abused by the prosecution or that it uses the said provision as a lethal weapon against anyone it likes.	None
In the instant case, we have noted how the recoveries have been made and how they have been proved by the unimpeachable testimony of the prosecution witnesses.	None
Mr. Luthra, learned senior counsel appearing for the State, would submit that in the present case, the material objects recovered serve as links to corroborate and they have been used as the law permits.	Arguments of Respondent
In this regard, he has filed a chart which we think it appropriate to reproduce for better appreciation of the said aspect.	Arguments of Respondent
It is as follows chart Having reproduced the chart, now we shall refer to certain authorities on how a statement of disclosure is to be appreciated.	None
In Pulukuri Kottaya v. Emperor, AIR 1947 PC 67 it has been observed It is fallacious to treat the fact discovered within the section as equivalent to the object produced the fact discovered embraces the place from which the object is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this, and the information given must relate distinctly to this fact.	None
Information as to past user, or the past history, of the object produced is not related to its discovery in the setting in which it is discovered.	None
Information supplied by a person in custody that I will produce a knife concealed in the roof of my house does not lead to the discovery of a knife knives were discovered many years ago.	None
It leads to the discovery of the fact that a knife is concealed in the house of the informant to his knowledge, and if the knife is proved to have been used in the commission of the offence, the fact discovered is very relevant.	None
But if to the statement the words be added with which I stabbed A, these words are inadmissible since they do not relate to the discovery of the knife in the house of the informant.	None
In Delhi Administration v. Bal Krishan and others, (1972) 4 SCC 659 the Court, analyzing the concept, use and evidentiary value of recovered articles, expressed thus 7. Section 27 of the Evidence Act permits proof of so much of the information which is given by persons accused of an offence when in the custody of a police officer as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered, irrespective of whether such information amounts to a confession or not.	None
Under Sections 25 and 26 of the Evidence Act, no confession made to a police officer whether in custody or not can be proved as against the accused.	None
But Section 27 is by way of a proviso to these sections and a statement, even by way of confession, which distinctly relates to the fact discovered is admissible as evidence against the accused in the circumstances stated in Section 27 In Mohd.	None
Inayatullah v. State of Maharashtra, (1976) 1 SCC 828 dealing with the scope and object of Section 27 of the Evidence Act, the Court held The expression provided that together with the phrase whether it amounts to a confession or not show that the section is in the nature of an exception to the preceding provisions particularly Sections 25 and 26.	None
It is not necessary in this case to consider if this section qualifies, to any extent, Section 24, also.	None
It will be seen that the first condition necessary for bringing this section into operation is the discovery of a fact, albeit a relevant fact, in consequence of the information received from a person accused of an offence.	None
The second is that the discovery of such fact must be deposed to.	None
The third is that at the time of the receipt of the information the accused must be in police custody.	None
The last but the most important condition is that only so much of the information as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered is admissible.	None
The rest of the information has to be excluded.	None
The word distinctly means directly, indubitably, strictly, unmistakably.	None
The word has been advisedly used to limit and define the scope of the provable information.	None
The phrase distinctly relates to the fact thereby discovered is the linchpin of the provision.	None
This phrase refers to that part of the information supplied by the accused which is the direct and immediate cause of the discovery.	None
The reason behind this partial lifting of the ban against confessions and statements made to the police, is that if a fact is actually discovered in consequence of information given by the accused, it affords some guarantee of truth of that part, and that part only, of the information which was the clear, immediate and proximate cause of the discovery.	None
No such guarantee or assurance attaches to the rest of the statement which may be indirectly or remotely related to the fact discovered.13.	None
At one time it was held that the expression fact discovered in the section is restricted to a physical or material fact which can be perceived by the senses, and that it does not include a mental fact (see Sukhan v. Crown, AIR 1929 Lah 344 Rex v. Ganee, AIR 1932	None
Bom 286 ).	None
Now it is fairly settled that the expression fact discovered includes not only the physical object produced, but also the place from which it is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this (see Palukuri Kotayya v. Emperor Udai Bhan v. State of Uttar Pradesh, AIR 1962 SC 1116 ).	None
Analysing the earlier decisions, in Anter Singh v. State of Rajasthan, (2004) 10 SCC 657 the Court summed up the various requirements of Section 27 as follows The fact of which evidence is sought to be given must be relevant to the issue.	None
It must be borne in mind that the provision has nothing to do with the question of relevancy.	None
The relevancy of the fact discovered must be established according to the prescriptions relating to relevancy of other evidence connecting it with the crime in order to make the fact discovered admissible.(2)	None
The fact must have been discovered.(3)	None
The discovery must have been in consequence of some information received from the accused and not by the accuseds own act.(4)	None
The person giving the information must be accused of any offence.(5)	None
He must be in the custody of a police officer.(6)	None
The discovery of a fact in consequence of information received from an accused in custody must be deposed to.(7)	None
Thereupon only that portion of the information which relates distinctly or strictly to the fact discovered can be proved.	None
The rest is inadmissible.	None
In State (NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu alias Afsan Guru, (2005) 11 SCC 600 the Court referred to the initial prevalence of divergent views and approaches and the same being put to rest in Pulukuri Kottaya case (supra) which has been described as locus classicus, relying on the said authority, observed To a great extent the legal position has got crystallised with the rendering of this decision.	None
The authority of the Privy Councils decision has not been questioned in any of the decisions of the highest court either in the preor postindependence era.	None
Right from the 1950s, till the advent of the new century and till date, the passages in this famous decision are being approvingly quoted and reiterated by the Judges of this Apex Court.	None
Yet, there remain certain grey areas as demonstrated by the arguments advanced on behalf of the State.	None
Explaining the said facet, the Court proceeded to state thus The first requisite condition for utilising Section 27 in support of the prosecution case is that the investigating police officer should depose that he discovered a fact in consequence of the information received from an accused person in police custody.	None
Thus, there must be a discovery of fact not within the knowledge of police officer as a consequence of information received.	None
Of course, it is axiomatic that the information or disclosure should be free from any element of compulsion.	None
The next component of Section 27 relates to the nature and extent of information that can be proved.	None
It is only so much of the information as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered that can be proved and nothing more.	None
It is explicitly clarified in the section that there is no taboo against receiving such information in evidence merely because it amounts to a confession.	None
At the same time, the last clause makes it clear that it is not the confessional part that is admissible but it is only such information or part of it, which relates distinctly to the fact discovered by means of the information furnished.	None
Thus, the information conveyed in the statement to the police ought to be dissected if necessary so as to admit only the information of the nature mentioned in the section.	None
The rationale behind this provision is that, if a fact is actually discovered in consequence of the information supplied, it affords some guarantee that the information is true and can therefore be safely allowed to be admitted in evidence as an incriminating factor against the accused.	None
As pointed out by the Privy Council in Kottaya caseclearly the extent of the information admissible must depend on the exact nature of the fact discoveredand the information must distinctly relate to that fact.	None
Elucidating the scope of this section, the Privy Council speaking through Sir John Beaumont saidNormally the section is brought into operation when a person in police custody produces from some place of concealment some object, such as a dead body, a weapon, or ornaments, said to be connected with the crime of which the informant is accused.	None
Expatriating the idea further, the Court proceeded to lay down 121.	None
We have emphasised the word normally because the illustrations given by the learned Judge are not exhaustive.	None
The next point to be noted is that the Privy Council rejected the argument of the counsel appearing for the Crown that the fact discovered is the physical object produced and that any and every information which relates distinctly to that object can be proved.	None
Upon this view, the information given by a person that the weapon produced is the one used by him in the commission of the murder will be admissible in its entirety.	None
Such contention of the Crowns counsel was emphatically rejected with the following wordsIf this be the effect of Section 27, little substance would remain in the ban imposed by the two preceding sections on confessions made to the police, or by persons in police custody.	None
That ban was presumably inspired by the fear of the legislature that a person under police influence might be induced to confess by the exercise of undue pressure.	None
But if all that is required to lift the ban be the inclusion in the confession of information relating to an object subsequently produced, it seems reasonable to suppose that the persuasive powers of the police will prove equal to the occasion, and that in practice the ban will lose its effect.	None
Then, Their Lordships proceeded to give a lucid exposition of the expression fact discovered in the following passage, which is quoted time and again by this CourtIn Their Lordships view it is fallacious to treat the fact discovered within the section as equivalent to the object produced the fact discovered embraces the place from which the object is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this, and the information given must relate distinctly to this fact.	None
Information as to past user, or the past history, of the object produced is not related to its discovery in the setting in which it is discovered.	None
Information supplied by a person in custody that I will produce a knife concealed in the roof of my house does not lead to the discovery of a knife knives were discovered many years ago.	None
It leads to the discovery of the fact that a knife is concealed in the house of the informant to his knowledge, and if the knife is proved to have been used in the commission of the offence, the fact discovered is very relevant.	None
But if to the statement the words be added with which I stabbed A these words are inadmissible since they do not relate to the discovery of the knife in the house of the informant.(emphasis supplied)122.	None
The approach of the Privy Council in the light of the above exposition of law can best be understood by referring to the statement made by one of the accused to the police officer.	None
It reads thus About 14 days ago, I, Kottaya and people of my party lay in wait for Sivayya and others at about sunset time at the corner of Pulipad tank.	None
We, all beat Beddupati China Sivayya and Subayya, to death.	None
The remaining persons, Pullayya, Kottaya and Narayana ran away.	None
Dondapati Ramayya who was in our party received blows on his hands.	None
He had a spear in his hands.	None
He gave it to me then.	None
I hid it and my stick in the rick of Venkatanarasu in the village.	None
I will show if you come.	None
We did all this at the instigation of Pulukuri Kottaya.	None
The Privy Council held that14.	None
The whole of that statement except the passage I hid it (a spear) and my stick in the rick of Venkatanarasu in the village.	None
I will show if you come is inadmissible.(emphasis supplied)There is another important observation at para 11 which needs to be noticed.	None
The Privy Council explained the probative force of the information made admissible under Section 27 in the following wordsExcept in cases in which the possession, or concealment, of an object constitutes the gist of the offence charged, it can seldom happen that information relating to the discovery of a fact forms the foundation of the prosecution case.	None
It is only one link in the chain of proof, and the other links must be forged in manner allowed by law.	None
In the instant case, the recoveries made when the accused persons were in custody have been established with certainty.	None
The witnesses who have deposed with regard to the recoveries have remained absolutely unshaken and, in fact, nothing has been elicited from them to disprove their creditworthiness.	None
Mr. Luthra, learned senior counsel for the State, has not placed reliance on any kind of confessional statement made by the accused persons.	None
He has only taken us through the statement to show how the recoveries have taken place and how they are connected or linked with the further investigation which matches the investigation as is reflected from the DNA profiling and other scientific evidence.	None
The High Court, while analyzing the facet of Section 27 of the Evidence Act, upheld the argument of the prosecution relying on State, Govt. of NCT of Delhi v. Sunil and another, (2001) 1 SCC 652 Sunil Clifford Daniel v. State of Punjab, (2012) 11 SCC 205 Ashok Kumar Chaudhary and others v. State of Bihar, (2008) 12 SCC 173 and Pramod Kumar v. State (Government of NCT of Delhi), (2013) 6 SCC 588 .	None
On a studied scrutiny of the arrest memo, statements recorded under Section 27 and the disclosure made in pursuance thereof, we find that the recoveries of articles belonging to the informant and the victim from the custody of the accused persons cannot be discarded.	None
The recovery is founded on the statements of disclosure.	None
The items that have been seized and the places from where they have been seized, as is limpid, are within the special knowledge of the accused persons.	None
No explanation has come on record from the accused persons explaining as to how they had got into possession of the said articles.	None
What is argued before us is that the said recoveries have really not been made from the accused persons but have been planted by the investigating agency with them.	None
On a reading of the evidence of the witnesses who constituted the investigating team, we do not notice anything in this regard.	None
The submission, if we allow ourselves to say so, is wholly untenable and a futile attempt to avoid the incriminating circumstance that is against the accused persons.	None
Test Identification Parade and the identification in	None
Court Now, we shall deal with the various facets of test identification parade.	None
Upon application moved by PW80, SI Pratibha Sharma, Investigating Officer, PW17, Sandeep Garg, Metropolitan Magistrate, conducted the Test Identification Parade (TIP) for the accused Ram Singh (since deceased), who refused to participate in the TIP proceedings on the ground that he was shown to the witnesses in the police station.	None
Since accused Ram Singh died during the trial, neither the trial court nor the High Court delved into this aspect regarding the refusal of accused Ram Singh to participate in the TIP proceedings.	None
On 19.12.2012, PW17, Sandeep Garg, Metropolitan Magistrate initiated TIP proceedings for accused Vinay and Pawan, but they refused to participate in the TIP.	None
In the TIP proceedings, the Metropolitan Magistrate has recorded the following accused Pawan Kumar Kalu and accused Vinay, both refused to participate in the TIP proceedings and stated that they had committed a horrible crime.	None
I recorded their refusal and gave certificate.	None
Vinay and Pawan refused to participate in the TIP proceedings without giving any reason whatsoever.	None
TIP of accused Mukesh was conducted on 20.12.2012 at Tihar Jail by PW17, Sandeep Garg, in which PW1, Awninder Pratap, identified accused Mukesh.	None
In his testimony, the informant, PW1, has identified his signature at point A in TIP proceedings with respect to the accused Mukesh, Ex.PW1/E. The High Court has pointed out that there was no serious challenge to the TIP proceedings of accused Mukesh in the crossexamination of the Metropolitan Magistrate, PW17, or even the Investigating Officer, PW80.	None
TIP of accused Akshay was conducted on 26.12.2012 at Central Jail No.4, Tihar Jail, where the informant, PW1, identified accused Akshay.	None
PW1 identified his signature at point A in the TIP proceedings of accused Akshay marked as Ex.PW1/F. The accused Mukesh and Akshay were already identified in the TIP proceedings by the informant.	None
Test Identification Proceedings corroborate and lend assurance to the dock identification of accused Mukesh and Akshay by the informant, PW1.	None
Criticizing the TIP, it is urged by the learned counsel for the appellants and Mr. Hegde, learned amicus curiae, that refusal to participate may be considered as circumstance but it cannot by itself lead to an inference of guilt.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also argued that there is material on record to show that the informant had the opportunity to see the accused persons after they were arrested.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is necessary to state here that TIP does not constitute substantive evidence.	None
It has been held in Matru alias Girish Chandra v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (1971) 2 SCC 75 that identification test is primarily meant for the purpose of helping the investigating agency with an assurance that their progress with the investigation of an offence is proceeding on the right lines.	None
In Santokh Singh v. Izhar Hussain and another, (1973) 2 SCC 406 it has been observed that the identification can only be used as corroborative of the statement in court.	None
In Malkhansingh v. State of M.P., (2003) 5 SCC 746 it has been held thus 7.	None
The identification parades belong to the stage of investigation, and there is no provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure which obliges the investigating agency to hold, or confers a right upon the accused to claim a test identification parade.	None
They do not constitute substantive evidence and these parades are essentially governed by Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	None
Failure to hold a test identification parade would not make inadmissible the evidence of identification in court.	None
The weight to be attached to such identification should be a matter for the courts of fact.	None
And again It is well settled that the substantive evidence is the evidence of identification in court and the test identification parade provides corroboration to the identification of the witness in court, if required.	None
However, what weight must be attached to the evidence of identification in court, which is not preceded by a test identification parade, is a matter for the courts of fact to examine.	None
In this context, reference to a passage from Visveswaran v. State represented by S.D.M., (2003) 6 SCC 73 would be apt.	None
It is as follows 11.	None
The identification of the accused either in test identification parade or in Court is not a sine qua non in every case if from the circumstances the guilt is otherwise established.	None
Many a time, crimes are committed under the cover of darkness when none is able to identify the accused.	None
The commission of a crime can be proved also by circumstantial evidence.	None
In Sidhartha Vashisht alias Manu Sharma v. State (NCT of Delhi), (2010) 6 SCC 1 the Court, after referring to Munshi Singh Gautam v. State of M.P., (2005) 9 SCC 631 Harbhajan Singh v. State of J K, (1975) 4 SCC 480 and Malkhansingh (supra), came to hold that the proposition of law is quite clear that even if there is no previous TIP, the court may appreciate the dock identification as being above board and more than conclusive.	None
In the case at hand, the informant, apart from identifying the accused who had made themselves available in the TIP, has also identified all of them in Court.	None
On a careful scrutiny of the evidence on record, we are of the convinced opinion that it deserves acceptance.	None
Therefore, we hold that TIP is not dented.	None
Admissibility and acceptability of the dying declaration of the prosecutrix At this stage, it would be immensely seemly to appreciate the acceptability and reliability of the dying declaration made by the prosecutrix.	None
The circumstances in this case, as is noticeable, makes the prosecution bring in three dying declarations.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sharma and Mr. Singh have been extremely critical about the manner in which they have been recorded and have highlighted the irreconcilable facets.	Arguments of Petitioner
In quintessence, their submission is that the three dying declarations have been contrived and deserve to be kept out of consideration.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Hegde, learned friend of the Court, contends that the dying declarations do not inspire confidence, for variations in them relate to the number of assailants, the description of the bus, the identity of the accused and the overt acts committed by them.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that the three dying declarations made by the prosecutrix vary from each other and the said variations clearly reveal the inconsistencies and the improvements in the dying declarations mirror the improvements that are brought about in PW1s statements and the progress of the investigation.148.	Arguments of Petitioner
The sudden appearance of the name Vipin in the third dying declaration after the recording of Akshays disclosure statement where he mentions a person named Vipin is alleged to be indicative of the fact that the dying declaration is, in fact, doubtful.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that the prosecution has failed to explain Vipin, his connection with the crime and his elimination from the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
The vapourisation of Vipin has to be considered against the backdrop of repeated assertions by the prosecution that every word of the three dying declarations is correct, consciously made and worthy of implicit belief.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned senior counsel has also submitted that apart from the inconsistencies, the numerous procedural irregularities in the recording of the declarations make it suspicious.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this regard, lack of an independent assessment of the mental fitness of the prosecutrix, while recording the second dying declaration, has been highlighted.	Arguments of Petitioner
The multiple choice questions in the third and final dying declaration are being nomenclatured as leading questions and it is asserted that they have not been satisfactorily explained by the prosecution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, the evidence by the doctors does not cure the impropriety of lack of an independent assessment by the SDM while recording her second dying declaration.149.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that if at all any dying declaration is to be relied on, it should only be the first dying declaration made on 16.12.2012 and recorded by PW49, Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, and the said dying declaration only states that there were 4 to 5 persons on the bus.	None
It is further stated that the prosecutrix was raped by a minimum of 2 men and that she does not remember intercourse after that.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is, therefore, unsafe to proceed on the assumption that all six persons on the bus committed rape upon the prosecutrix within a span of 21 minutes.	Arguments of Petitioner
Keeping the aforesaid criticism in view, we proceed to analyse the acceptability and reliability of the dying declarations.	None
Firstly, when the prosecutrix was brought to the Gynae Casualty about 1115 p.m., she gave a brief account of the incident to PW49, Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, in her MLC on 16.12.2012.	None
PW49, Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, has deposed that on the night of 16.12.2012 about 1115 p.m., the prosecutrix was brought to the casualty by a PCR constable and that she gave a brief history of the incident.	None
PW49, Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, recorded the same in her writing in the Casualty GRR paper, i.e., Ex.	None
PW49/A. In the instant case, as per the history told by the prosecutrix to Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, it was a case of gang rape in a moving bus by 45 persons when the prosecutrix was returning after watching a film with her friend.	None
She was slapped on her face, kicked on her abdomen and bitten over lips, cheek, breast and vulval region.	Facts
She remembers intercourse two times and rectal penetration also.	None
She was also forced to suck their penis but she refused.	Facts
All this continued for half an hour and then she was thrown off from the moving bus with her friend.	None
We have already stated about the injuries which were noted by Dr. Rashmi Ahuja in Ex.PW49/A. The relevant statement of the prosecutrix in the Medico Legal Expert, Ex.PW49/A, reads as under she went to watch movie with her boyfriend, Awnidra she left the movie at 845 PM and was waiting for bus at Munirka Bus stop where a bus going to Bahadurgarh, stopped and both climbed the bus at around 9 PM.	None
At around 905910 PM, around 45 people in the bus started misbehaving with the girl, took her to the rear side of bus while her boyfriend was taken to the front of bus, where both were beaten up badly.	None
Her clothes were torn over and she was beaten up, slapped repeatedly over her face, bitten over lips, cheeks, breast and Mons veneris.	None
She was also kicked over her abdomen again and again.	None
She was raped by at least minimum of two men, she does not remember intercourse after that.	None
She had rectal penetration.	None
They also forced their penis into her mouth and forced her to suck which she refused and was beaten up instead.	None
This continued for half hour and she was then thrown away from the moving bus with her boyfriend.	None
She was taken up by PCR Van and brought to GRR.	None
She has history of intercourse with her boyfriend about two months back.	None
(willfully) PW49, Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, had noticed number of injuries on the person of the prosecutrix and the same were noted in Ex.	None
PW 49/B as under Responding to verbal commandsbruise over Rt eye covering whole of the abrasion at Rt angle of eyeHairs had grasses in her hairsbruise over left nostril involving upper lipHer wrapping sheet soaked in bloodBoth lips edematous bleeding from upper lip presentBite mark over right chick left chick presentP116/min radial feebleLeft angle of mouth injured (laceration)BP 100/60 mmhg, RR 18/minBoth ears unremarkableBoth upper limbs unremarkableRt breastbite mark below areola presentLeft breastbruise over Rt lower introitsA tag torn vagina hanging outsideQuadrant bite mark in inferiorP S bleeding P V P V posterior	None
vagina wallQuadrant P A Guarding present L E cut mark (sharp) overRt labia tear of about 78 cms.	None
L E cut mark (sharp) over rt.	None
Labia present rest labia major aid uninoraP R Rectal tear of about 4 cm communicating with Vagina PW50, Dr. Raj Kumar Chejara, and the surgery team operated the prosecutrix in the intervening night of 16/17.12.2012 and the operative findings have also been earlier noted.	None
PW50, Dr. Raj Kumar Chejara, has proved the OT notes as Ex.	None
PW50/A bearing the signature of Dr. Gaurav and his own note in this regard is Ex.	None
PW50/B. As per his opinion, the condition of the small and large bowels were extremely bad for any definitive repair.	None
After performing the operation, the patient was shifted to ICU.	None
The first surgery was damage control surgery and it was expected that unhealthy bowel would be there.	None
The second surgery was performed on 19.12.2012 by him along with his operating team consisting of Prof. Sunil Kumar, Dr. Pintu and Dr. Siddharth.	None
From the gynaecological side, Dr. Aruna Batra and Dr. Rekha Bharti were present along with anaesthetic team.	None
The findings were as under Abdominal findings1.	None
Rectum was longtitudinally torn on anterior aspect in continuation with perineal tear.	None
This tear was continuing upward involving sigmoid colon, descending colon which was splayed open.	None
The margin were edematous.	None
There were multiple longitudinal tear in the mucosa of recto sigmoid area.	None
Transverse colon was also torn and gangrenous.	None
Hepatic flexture, ascending colon caecum were gangrenous with multiple perforations at many places.	None
Terminal ileum approximately one and a half feet loosely hanging in the abdominal cavity, it was avulsed from its mesentry and was nonviable.	None
Rest of the small bowel was nonexistent with only patches of mucosa at places and borders of the mesentry was contused.	None
The contused mesentry borders initially appeared (during 1st surgery) as contused small bowel.2.	None
Jejunostomy stoma was gangrenous for approximately 2cm.3.	None
Stomach and duodenum was distended but healthy.	None
Dying Declaration was recorded by SDM, Smt.	None
Usha Chaturvedi, PW27, on 21.12.2012.	None
The medical record of the prosecutrix shows that the prosecutrix was not found fit for recording of her statement until 21st December, 2012 about 600 p.m. when the prosecutrix was declared fit for recording statement by PW52, Dr. P.K Verma.	None
PW52 had examined the prosecutrix and found her to be fit, conscious, oriented and meaningfully communicative for making statement vide his endorsement at point A on application, Ex.	None
PW27/DB.	None
The second dying declaration, Ex.PW27/A, was recorded by PW27, Smt.	None
Usha Chaturvedi, SDM.	None
This dying declaration is an elaborate one where the prosecutrix has described the incident in detail including the act of insertion of rod in her private parts.	None
She also stated that the accused were addressing each other with names like,Ram Singh, Thakur, Raju, Mukesh, Pawan and Vinay.	None
The relevant portion of the dying declaration Ex.	None
PW27/A recorded by PW27, SDM, is extracted below Q.1.	None
What is your name, your fathers name and your residential address?Ans.	None
My name is prosecutrix and my father name is Sh.	None
and we reside at Q.2 Do you study or work some where?Ans.	None
I have completed my BPT (Bachelor of Physiotherapy).Q.3 On which date and place, the incident occurred?Ans.	None
This happened on 16.12.12 in the midst of at about 900915 p.m.Q.4 Where had you gone on that day and how did you reach the place of occurrence?Ans.	None
I had gone to watch the movie i.e. Life of Pi 6.408.30 p.m. to Select City Mall, Saket on the day of incident along with my friend Sh.	None
Awninder S o. Sh.	None
Bhanu Pratap, R o House No.14, Bair Sarai, New Delhi16.	None
We took an Auto Rikshaw from there and reached Munirka.	None
Q.5 How did you go further?Ans.	None
After that, I saw white colored bus whose conductor had been calling the passengers of Palam Mor and Dwarka.	None
I had to go to Dwarka, Sec1.	None
That is why both of us, I and my friend boarded the bus and gave twenty rupees (Rs. 20/) at the fare of Rs. 10/ per passenger.	None
Q.6.	None
Were there passengers inside the bus?Ans.	None
When I entered the bus there were 67 passengers.	None
Assuming them to be passenger, we sat outside the cabin of the bus.	None
Q.7 Provide the detailed information about the bus?Ans.	None
The bus was of the white colour and the seats were of the red colour.	None
Yellow coloured curtains were fixed.	None
The glasses of the bus were black and were closed.	None
I could see outside from inside but nothing could be seen inside from outside.	None
In one row of the bus there were two seats and in the other row, there were three seats.	None
Q,8	None
After entering the bus, did you suspect anything seeing the people occupying the seats there?Ans.	None
I had suspected (something amiss) but the conductor had already taken the (fare) money and the bus had started.	None
So, I kept sitting there.	None
Q.9 What did happen afterwards?	None
Please inform in detail.	None
Ans.	None
After five minutes when the bus climbed the bridge of Malai Mandir, the Conductor closed the door of the bus and switched off the light inside the bus.	None
And they came to my friend and started hitting and beating him.	None
Three four (34) people caught hold of him and the remaining people dragged me to the rear portion of the bus and tore off my clothes and took turns to rape me.	None
They hit me on my stomach with an iron rod and bit me on my whole body.	None
Prior to that, they snatched from me and my friend all our articles i.e. mobile phone, purse, credit card, debit card, watches, etc.	None
All six of the persons committed oral, vaginal, anal rape on me.	None
These people inserted the iron rod into my body through my vagina and rectum and also pulled it out.	None
They extracted the internal private part of my body through inserting hand and iron rod into my private parts and caused hurt to me.	None
Six persons kept committing rape on me for approximately one hour by turns.	None
The drivers kept changing in the moving bus so that they can rape mePW27 Usha Chaturvedi, SDM, when examined and recorded the dying declaration of prosecutrix come off in her dying declaration she state as under The clinical notes, Ex.	None
PW50/C, and notes prepared by the gynaecology team were proved as Ex.	None
PW50/D. The gynaecological notes were prepared on actual examination of the patient on the operation table during the surgery.	None
PW50 further operated the prosecutrix on 23.12.2012 for peritoneal lavage and placement of drain under general anaesthesia and his notes are Ex.	None
PW50/E. Statement of the prosecutrix was recorded by PW30, Pawan Kumar, Metropolitan Magistrate, vide Ex.	None
PW30/D. On 24.12.2012, an application for recording the statement of the prosecutrix under Section 164 CrPC was moved by the Investigating Officer, which is exhibited as Ex.PW30/A	None
and, thereafter, the learned Metropolitan Magistrate fixed the date for recording of the statement as 25.12.2012 at 900 a.m. at Safdarjung Hospital vide his endorsement at Point P to P1 on Ex.	None
PW30/A. On 25.12.2012, PW28, Dr. Rajesh Rastogi, at 1240 p.m., declared the prosecutrix fit for recording statement through gestures.	None
She was found conscious, oriented, cooperative, comfortable and meaningfully communicative to make a statement through nonverbal gestures.	None
On 25.12.2012, the prosecutrixs statement, Ex.PW30/D, under Section 164 CrPC was recorded by PW30, Pawan Kumar, Metropolitan Magistrate, in the form of questions by putting her multiple choice questions.	None
This statement was made through gestures and writings.	None
The statement recorded by PW30 which ultimately became another dying declaration reads as under 25/12/2012 at 01.00 p.m. at ICU Safdarjung Hospital.	None
Statement of Prosecutrix (Name and Particulars withheld) As opined by the attending doctors the Prosecutrix is not in position to speak	None
but she is otherwise conscious and oriented and responding by way of gestures, so I am putting question in such a manner so as to enable to narrate the incident by way of gesture or writing.	None
Ques.	None
When and at what time the incident happened?1.	None
20/12/2012 2.	None
13/12/2012 3.	None
16/12/2012Ans 16/12/12 (by writing after taking time)Ques.	None
Have you seen the staff of the bus?	None
1.	None
Yes 2.	None
NoAns.	None
1 yes by gesture (nodding her head)Ques.	None
Have you seen those people at that time?	None
1.	None
Yes 2.	None
NoAns.	None
1Ques.	None
By which article they have given beatings?	None
(answer by writing)Ans.	None
By iron rod which was long.	None
Ques.	None
What happened of your belongings means mobile etc.?1.	None
Fell down 2.	None
Snatched by them 3.	None
Dont knowAns. 2Ques.	None
Besides rape where and how did you get the injuries?	None
(tried to answer by writing)Ans.	None
Head, face, back, whole body including genital parts (by gesture indication)Ques.	None
By which names they were addressing to each other?	None
(tried answer by writing)Ans. 1.	None
Ram Singh, Mukesh, Vinay, Akshay, Vipin, Raju.Ques.	None
What did they do after rape?1.	None
Left at home 2.	None
Threw at unknown place 3.	None
Got down at some other bus stop.	None
Ans 2 As per Ex.	None
PW30/D, this answer was written by the prosecutrix in her own hand.	None
On 26.12.2012, the condition of the prosecutrix was examined and it was decided to shift her abroad for further treatment.	None
Notes in this regard are Ex.	None
PW50/F bearing the signatures of Dr. Raj Kumar, Dr. Sunil Kumar, Dr. Aruna Batra and Dr. P.K. Verma.	None
The prosecutrix died at Mount Elizabeth Hospital, Singapore on 29.12.2012 at 445 a.m.	None
The cause of death is stated as sepsis with multi organ failure following multiple injuries, as is evincible from Ex.	None
PW34/A. Learned counsel for the appellants have objected to the admissibility of the dying declarations available on record mainly on the ground that they are not voluntary but tutored.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is argued that the second and third dying declarations are nothing but a product of tutoring and are nonvoluntary and the only statement recorded is the MLC, Ex.PW49/A and Ex.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW49/B, prepared immediately after the incident, wherein the prosecutrix has neither named any of the accused nor mentioned the factum of iron rod being used by the accused persons and the act of the accused in committing unnatural offence.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further alleged that the prosecutrix could not have given such a lengthy dying declaration running upto four pages on 21.12.2012 as she was on oxygen support.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW27 has deposed that the prosecutrix was on oxygen support at the time of recording the second dying declaration.	None
It is further contended that it must be taken into account that ever since the prosecutrix was admitted to the hospital, she was continuously on morphine and, thus, she could not have gained consciousness.	Arguments of Petitioner
The second dying declaration has been further assailed on the ground of being recorded at the behest of SDM, PW27, instead of a Magistrate and that too after a delay of nearly four days.	Arguments of Petitioner
The third dying declaration, Ex.PW30/D, recorded by the Metropolitan Magistrate, PW30, on 25.12.2012 through gestures and writings is controverted by putting forth the allegations of false medical fitness certificate and absence of videography.165.	Arguments of Petitioner
Another argument advanced by the lerned counsel raising suspicion on the genuineness of the second and third dying declarations is that the dates on which the dying declarations were recorded have been manipulated.	Arguments of Petitioner
The counsel asseverated that the second dying declaration, i.e., Ex.PW27/A, purported to have been recorded by PW27 on 21.12.2012 was, in fact, recorded on the previous day as evidenced from the overwriting of the date in Ex.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW27/B. The counsel also pointed to the overwriting of the date in the third dying declaration, i.e., Ex.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW30/C, recorded by PW30.	None
It is propounded by them that the date was modified thrice in order to fit in the fake chain of circumstances contrived by the prosecution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Resisting the said submissions, Mr. Luthra, learned senior counsel for the State, astutely contended that all the three dying declarations recorded at the instance of the prosecutrix are consistent and well corroborated by medical evidence as well as by PW1s testimony, and other scientific evidence.	None
The prosecutrixs first statement, Ex. PW49/A, given to PW49 was only a brief account of the heinous act committed on her and in that state of shock, nothing more could be legitimately expected of her.	Arguments of Respondent
Only after receiving medical attention, she was declared fit to record statement and on 21.12.2012, PW52 had examined the prosecutrix and found her to be fit, conscious, oriented and meaningfully communicative for making statement vide his endorsement at point A on application Ex.	Arguments of Respondent
PW27/DB.	None
PW27, Smt.	None
Usha Chaturvedi, SDM, recorded her statement in which the prosecutrix described the incident in detail and also named the accused persons.	Arguments of Respondent
In fact, PW27 has also deposed before the court that the prosecutrix was in a fit mental condition to give the statement on 21.12.2012.	Arguments of Respondent
Moreover, the prosecutrixs third statement, Ex.PW30/D, which was recorded in questionanswer form through gestures and writings by PW30, Pawan Kumar, Metropolitan Magistrate, is consistent with the earlier two dying declarations and that adds to the credibility and conclusively establishes reliability.	Arguments of Respondent
In the first dying declaration made to PW49, Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, recorded in Ex.PW49/A and in MLC, Ex.PW49/B, due to her medical condition, though the prosecutrix broadly described the incident of gang rape committed on her and injuries caused to her and PW1, yet she failed to vividly describe the incident of inserting iron rod, etc.	None
As soon as the prosecutrix was brought to the hospital, she gave a brief description of the incident to PW49, Dr. Rashmi Ahuja.	None
As it appears from the record, the prosecutrix had lost sufficient quantity of blood due to which she was drowsy and could only give a brief account of the incident and injuries caused to her and the informant.	None
Even though the prosecutrix has given only a brief account of the occurrence, yet she was responding to verbal command and hence, the same is natural and trustworthy and furthermore, Ex.	None
PW49/A is also consistent with the other dying declarations.	None
By virtue of the second dying declaration recorded as Ex.	None
PW27/A on 21.12.2012 about 910 p.m. by the SDM, Smt.	None
Usha Chaturvedi, the exact details of the incident and the injuries caused to the prosecutrix have come on record.	None
The learned SDM has satisfied herself that the prosecutrix was fit to make the statement.	None
While recording the dying declaration of the prosecutrix, Ex.	None
PW27/A, Dr. P.K Verma, PW52, had found her conscious, oriented and meaningfully communicative vide his endorsement at point A on the application, Ex.	None
PW27/DB.	None
It was only thereafter that PW27, Smt.	None
Usha Chaturvedi, SDM, recorded the statement, Ex.	None
PW27/A, of the prosecutrix.	None
The prosecutrix not only signed it but even wrote the date and time in this statement.	None
She narrated the entire incident specifying the role of each accused gang rape unnatural sex committed upon her the injuries caused in her vagina and rectum by use of iron rod and by inserting of hands by the accused description of the bus, robbery and lastly throwing of both the victims out of the moving bus, Ex.P1, in naked condition at the footfall of Mahipalpur flyover.	None
As it appears from the record, PW27, after recording the statement of the prosecutrix, as contained in Ex.	None
PW27/A, forwarded the statement alongwith the forwarding letter, Ex.	None
PW27/B, to the ACP, Vasant Vihar undersigned by herself.	None
Ex.	None
PW27/A, which contains the statement of the prosecutrix, is duly signed by the prosecutrix on all the pages and also signed by PW27, SDM.	None
PW27 has certified in Ex.	None
PW27/A that the signature of the prosecutrix was obtained in her presence at 900 p.m. on 21.12.2012 after which she has signed the same.	None
No overwriting of date is evidenced in Ex.	None
PW27/A. However, so far as the forwarding letter, i.e., Ex.PW27/B, is concerned, the date mentioned by PW27 after putting her signature is overwritten as 21.12.2012.	None
When crossexamined on this aspect, PW27 has stated that she had herself overwritten the date and, thus, overruled the possibility of any falsification of the document at the behest of the investigating team.	None
PW27 explained the overwriting of date as a human error and the same has been rightly construed by the trial court and accepted by the High Court as a complete explanation.	None
The relevant statement of PW27 is as under It is correct that in Ex.	None
PW27/B there is an over writing on the date under my signature.	None
VOL	None
It was a human error.	None
The statement was recorded on 21122012, so for all purpose this date will be 21122012.	None
Agian on 25.12.2012 on an application, Ex.PW28/A, though Dr. P.K Verma, PW52, opined that the prosecutrix was unable to speak as she was having endotracheal tube, i.e, in larynx and trachea and was on ventilator, yet PW28, Dr. Rajesh Rastogi, declared her to be conscious, oriented and meaningfully communicative through nonverbal gestures and fit to give statement.	None
PW30, Pawan Kumar, Metropolitan Magistrate, also satisfied himself qua fitness and ability of the prosecutrix to give rational answers by gestures to his multiple choice questions.	None
The opinion of the doctors obtained prior to recording of the statements, Ex.	None
PW27/A and Ex.	None
PW30/D1, as also the observations made by the SDM and Metropolitan Magistrate qua her fitness cannot be disregarded completely on the basis of surmises of the learned counsel for the appellants.171.	None
Adverting to the third dying declaration, Ex.PW30/C, we are able to appreciate that PW30, after recording the statement of the prosecutrix, has signed the document.	None
The date mentioned therein is overwritten as 25.12.2012.	None
However, in the forwarding note to the investigating officer which is contained in continuation of the prosecutrixs statement annexed as Ex.	None
PW30/C, the signature and date mentioned by PW30 is very clear and no overwriting is visible.	None
Be it noted, PW30 was never crossexamined on the aspect of overwriting of the date in Ex.	None
PW30/C. The learned counsel has, for the first time, raised this issue before us merely to substantiate his suspicion of manipulation on the part of the prosecution.	None
We hold that pointing at insignificant errors is inconsequential so far as cogent evidence produced by the prosecution stand on a terra firma.	None
It is beyond human prudence to discard the detailed and well signed statements of the prosecutrix, in spite of clear date put by herself, merely because PW30 erred at one point of time in correctly recording the date.	None
Moreover, the testimony of PW52, Dr. P.K. Verma, who was incharge of the ICU and in whose supervision the entire treatment and recording of statements by the prosecutrix was done, cannot be discarded on account of meagre technical errors.	None
Another line of argument developed by the learned counsel is that there has been failure on the part of the prosecutrix to disclose the names of any of the accused persons in the brief history given by her to the doctor in MLC, Ex.PW49/A, and so, her dying declarations, Ex.PW27/A and Ex.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW30/D1, where she had given the names of the accused persons, are tutored versions and cannot form the basis of conviction.	None
This argument, however, is completely unjustified in the light of the medical condition of the prosecutrix when she was brought to the hospital.	None
As per the records, the prosecutrix was brought to the hospital in a state of subconsciousness and sheer trauma.	None
In her MLC, Ex.PW49/B, her condition is described as drowsy responding only to verbal commands and hence, not completely alert due to the shock and excessive loss of blood.	None
The prosecutrix was declared fit to make statements, Ex.	None
PW27/A and Ex.	None
PW30/D1, only when she was operated thrice.	None
Her dying declarations, Ex.	None
PW27/A and Ex.	None
PW30/D1, also stand corroborated by the medical evidence as well as the testimony of PW1.	None
A dying declaration is an important piece of evidence which, if found veracious and voluntary by the court, could be the sole basis for conviction.	None
If a dying declaration is found to be voluntary and made in fit mental condition, it can be relied upon even without any corroboration.	None
However, the court, while admitting a dying declaration, must be vigilant towards the need for Compos Mentis Certificate from a doctor as well as the absence of any kind of tutoring.	None
In Laxman v. State of Maharashtra, (2002) 6 SCC 710	None
the law relating to dying declaration was succinctly put in the following words 3.	None
A dying declaration can be oral or in writing and any adequate method of communication whether by words or by signs or otherwise will suffice provided the indication is positive and definite.	None
In most cases, however, such statements are made orally before death ensues and is reduced to writing by someone like a Magistrate or a doctor or a police officer.	None
When it is recorded, no oath is necessary nor is the presence of a Magistrate absolutely necessary, although to assure authenticity it is usual to call a Magistrate, if available for recording the statement of a man about to die.	None
There is no requirement of law that a dying declaration must necessarily be made to a Magistrate and when such statement is recorded by a Magistrate there is no specified statutory form for such recording.	None
Consequently, what evidential value or weight has to be attached to such statement necessarily depends on the facts and circumstances of each particular case.	None
What is essentially required is that the person who records a dying declaration must be satisfied that the deceased was in a fit state of mind.	None
Where it is proved by the testimony of the Magistrate that the declarant was fit to make the statement even without examination by the doctor the declaration can be acted upon provided the court ultimately holds the same to be voluntary and truthful.	None
A certification by the doctor is essentially a rule of caution and therefore the voluntary and truthful nature of the declaration can be established otherwise.	None
The legal position regarding the admissibility of a dying declaration is settled by this Court in several judgments.	None
This Court, in Atbir v. Government of NCT of Delhi, (2010) 9 SCC 1 taking into consideration the earlier judgment of this Court in Paniben v. State of Gujarat, (1992) 2 SCC 474 and another judgment of this Court in Panneerselvam v. State of Tamil Nadu, (2008) 17 SCC 190 has exhaustively laid down the following guidelines with respect to the admissibility of dying declaration 22.	None
(i) Dying declaration can be the sole basis of conviction if it inspires the full confidence of the court.(ii)	None
The court should be satisfied that the deceased was in a fit state of mind at the time of making the statement and that it was not the result of tutoring, prompting or imagination.(iii) Where the court is satisfied that the declaration is true and voluntary, it can base its conviction without any further corroboration.(iv)	None
It cannot be laid down as an absolute rule of law that the dying declaration cannot form the sole basis of conviction unless it is corroborated.	None
The rule requiring corroboration is merely a rule of prudence.(v) Where the dying declaration is suspicious, it should not be acted upon without corroborative evidence.(vi)	None
A dying declaration which suffers from infirmity such as the deceased was unconscious and could never make any statement cannot form the basis of conviction.(vii)	None
Merely because a dying declaration does not contain all the details as to the occurrence, it is not to be rejected.(viii) Even if it is a brief statement, it is not to be discarded.(ix)	None
When the eyewitness affirms that the deceased was not in a fit and conscious state to make the dying declaration, medical opinion cannot prevail.(x)	None
If after careful scrutiny, the court is satisfied that it is true and free from any effort to induce the deceased to make a false statement and if it is coherent and consistent, there shall be no legal impediment to make it the basis of conviction, even if there is no corroboration.	None
It is well settled that dying declaration can form the sole basis of conviction provided that it is free from infirmities and satisfies various other tests.	None
In a case where there are more than one dying declaration, if some inconsistencies are noticed between one and the other, the court has to examine the nature of inconsistencies as to whether they are material or not.	None
The court has to examine the contents of the dying declarations in the light of the various surrounding facts and circumstances.	None
In Shudhakar v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (2012) 7 SCC 569 this Court, after referring to the landmark decisions in Laxman (supra) and Chirra Shivraj v. State of Andhra Pradesh, (2010) 14 SCC 444 has dealt with the issues arising out of multiple dying declarations and has gone to the extent of declining the first dying declaration and accepting the subsequent dying declarations.	None
The Court found that the first dying declaration was not voluntary and not made by free will of the deceased and the second and third dying declarations were voluntary and duly corroborated by other prosecution witnesses and medical evidence.	None
In the said case, the accused was married to the deceased whom he set ablaze by pouring kerosene in the matrimonial house itself.	None
The smoke arising from the house attracted the neighbours who rushed the victim to the hospital where she recorded three statements before dying.	None
In her first statement given to the Naib Tehsildar, she did not implicate her husband, but in the second and third statements, which were also recorded on the same day, she clearly stated that the accused poured kerosene on her and set her on fire.	None
The accused was convicted under Section 302 IPC.	None
In this regard, the Court made the following observations Having referred to the law relating to dying declaration, now we may examine the issue that in cases involving multiple dying declarations made by the deceased, which of the various dying declarations should be believed by the court and what are the principles governing such determination.	None
This becomes important where the multiple dying declarations made by the deceased are either contradictory or are at variance with each other to a large extent.	None
The test of common prudence would be to first examine which of the dying declarations is corroborated by other prosecution evidence.	None
Further, the attendant circumstances, the condition of the deceased at the relevant time, the medical evidence, the voluntariness and genuineness of the statement made by the deceased, physical and mental fitness of the deceased and possibility of the deceased being tutored are some of the factors which would guide the exercise of judicial discretion by the court in such matters.	None
Recently, a twoJudge Bench of this Court in Sandeep and another v. State of Haryana, (2015) 11 SCC 154 (2015) 2	None
SCR 1999 SC was faced with a similar situation where the first dying declaration given to a police officer was more elaborate and the subsequent dying declaration recorded by the Judicial Magistrate lacked certain information given earlier.	None
After referring to the two dying declarations, this Court examined whether there was any inconsistency between the two dying declarations.	None
After examining the contents of the two dying declarations, this Court held that there was no inconsistency between the two dying declarations and nonmention of certain features in the dying declaration recorded by the Judicial Magistrate does not make both the dying declarations incompatible.	None
In this regard, it will be useful to reproduce a passage from Babulal and others v. State of M.P., (2003) 12 SCC 490 wherein the value of dying declaration in evidence has been stated 7.	None
A person who is facing imminent death, with even a shadow of continuing in this world practically nonexistent, every motive of falsehood is obliterated.	None
The mind gets altered by most powerful ethical reasons to speak only the truth.	None
Great solemnity and sanctity is attached to the words of a dying person because a person on the verge of death is not likely to tell lies or to concoct a case so as to implicate an innocent person.	None
The maxim is a man will not meet his Maker with a lie in his mouth (nemo moriturus praesumitur mentire).	None
Mathew Arnold said, truth sits on the lips of a dying man.	None
The general principle on which the species of evidence is admitted is that they are declarations made in extremity, when the party is at the point of death, and when every hope of this world is gone, when every motive to falsehood is silenced and mind induced by the most powerful consideration to speak the truth situation so solemn that law considers the same as creating an obligation equal to that which is imposed by a positive oath administered in a court of justice.	None
Dealing with oral dying declaration, a twoJudge Bench in Prakash and another v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (1992) 4 SCC 225 has ruled thus 11.	None
In the ordinary course, the members of the family including the father were expected to ask the victim the names of the assailants at the first opportunity and if the victim was in a position to communicate, it is reasonably expected that he would give the names of the assailants if he had recognised the assailants.	None
In the instant case there is no occasion to hold that the deceased was not in a position to identify the assailants because it is nobodys case that the deceased did not know the accused persons.	None
It is therefore quite likely that on being asked the deceased would name the assailants.	None
In the facts and circumstances of the case the High Court has accepted the dying declaration and we do not think that such a finding is perverse and requires to be interfered with.	None
In Vijay Pal v. State (Government of NCT of Delhi), (2015) 4 SCC 749 after referring to the Constitution Bench decision in Laxman (supra) and the twoJudge Bench decisions in Babulal (supra) and Prakash (supra), the Court held Thus, the law is quite clear that if the dying declaration is absolutely credible and nothing is brought on record that the deceased was in such a condition, he or she could not have made a dying declaration to a witness, there is no justification to discard the same.	None
In the instant case, PW 1 had immediately rushed to the house of the deceased and she had told him that her husband had poured kerosene on her.	None
The plea taken by the appellant that he has been falsely implicated because his money was deposited with the inlaws and they were not inclined to return, does not also really breathe the truth, for there is even no suggestion to that effect.23.	None
It is contended by the learned counsel for the appellant that when the deceased sustained 100 burn injuries, she could not have made any statement to her brother.	None
In this regard, we may profitably refer to the decision in Mafabhai Nagarbhai Raval v. State of Gujarat, (1992) 4 SCC 69 wherein it has been held that a person suffering 99 burn injuries could be deemed capable enough for the purpose of making a dying declaration.	None
The Court in the said case opined that unless there existed some inherent and apparent defect, the trial court should not have substituted its opinion for that of the doctor.	None
In the light of the facts of the case, the dying declaration was found to be worthy of reliance.24.	None
In State of M.P. v. Dal Singh, (2013) 14 SCC 159 a twoJudge Bench placed reliance on the dying declaration of the deceased who had suffered 100 burn injuries on the ground that the dying declaration was found to be credible.	None
In the case at hand, the first statement of the prosecutrix was recorded by PW49, Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, on the night of 16.12.2012 and the second statement was recorded by the SDM on 21.12.2012 after a delay of five days.	None
In the present facts and circumstances of the case, we do not find that there is any inconsistency in the dying declarations to raise suspicion as to the genuinity and voluntariness of the subsequent dying declarations.	None
The prosecutrix had been under constant medical attention and was reported to be fit for giving a statement on 21.12.2012 only.	None
On the night of the incident itself, she underwent first surgery conducted by PW50, Dr. Raj Kumar Chejara, Surgical Specialist, Department of Surgery, Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi and his surgery team comprising of himself, Dr. Gaurav and Dr. Piyush, and the prosecutrix was shifted to ICU.	None
The second surgery was performed on her on 19.12.2012.	None
Ex.	None
PW50/C, OT notes dated 19.12.2012 show that the prosecutrix was put on ventilation after the surgery.	None
Considering the facts and circumstances and the law laid down above, a mere omission on the part of the prosecutrix to state the entire factual details of the incident in her very first statement does not make her subsequent statements unworthy, especially when her statements are duly corroborated by other prosecution witnesses including the medical evidence.	None
The contention that no dying declaration could have been recorded on 21.12.2012 as the prosecutrix was administered morphine does not hold good as PW52, Dr. P.K. Verma, has deposed that morphine was injected at 600 p.m. on 20.12.2012 and its effect would have lasted for only 34 hours.	None
PW52 has denied that the prosecutrix was unconscious and had difficulty in breathing at the time when she made the statement to PW27, SDM, on 21.12.2012.	None
Yet another objection raised by the the learned counsel for the appellants concerning the medical fitness of the prosecutrix, while recording the third dying declaration is that when PW30, Metropolitan Magistrate, Pawan Kumar, recorded the dying declaration of the prosecutrix, she was not in a position to speak as per the endorsement made by PW52, Dr. P.K. Verma, and, therefore, no weight could be attached to the dying declaration recorded by PW30.	None
In this regard, reliance is placed upon Ex.PW30/B1.	None
This contention was raised before the High Court as well as the trial court and while considering the contention, we find that On 25.12.2012, application Ex.PW30/B moved by P.W.80 S.I. Pratibha Sharma between 930 a.m. to 1000 a.m. seeking opinion regarding fitness of prosecutrix to get statement recorded.	None
Pw52 Dr. P.K. Verma examined the prosecutrix and opined at 1235 p.m. that patient has endotracheal tube in place (i.e. in her larynx and trachea) and was on ventilator and hence she could not speak.	None
PW28, Dr. Rajesh Rastogi, opined vide Ex.	None
PW28/A at 1240 p.m. on 25.12.2012 that the prosecutrix was conscious, cooperative, meaningfully communicative through nonverbal gestures, oriented and fit to give statement.	None
PW28, Dr. Rajesh Rastogi, examined the prosecutrix around 12 noon and finished it by 12001230 p.m.	None
On 25.12.2012 at 1235 p.m., Dr. P.K. Verma had endorsed on the document Exhibit PW30/B that the victim could not speak as she had endotracheal tube in place (that is, in larynx and trachea) and was on ventilator.	None
However, subsequently, at 1240 p.m. on the same day, PW28, Dr. Rajesh Rastogi, had endorsed on the said document, Ex.PW30/B, to the effect that the victim was conscious, cooperative, meaningfully communicative, oriented, responding through nonverbal gestures and fit to give statement.	None
The learned counsel contended that it is inconceivable that the prosecutrix who was on life support system at 1235 p.m. could be opined to be conscious, cooperative and fit to give statement within five minutes, i.e., at 1240 p.m.	None
The said contention, as we find, has been appropriately dealt with by both courts below by adverting to the depositions of PW52, Dr. P.K. Verma, and PW28, Dr. Rajesh Rastogi.	None
Regarding the fit mental condition of the prosecutrix and as to the different endorsements made by PW52, Dr. P.K. Verma, and PW28, Rajesh Rastogi, PW52 was questioned suggesting that the prosecutrix was not in a fit mental condition to give the dying declaration.	None
PW52 has clearly deposed in his crossexamination that he had never endorsed that the victim was unfit to give statement at 1235 p.m., rather he had said that she was on ventilator and hence, could not speak.	None
The aforesaid explanation of PW52, Dr. P.K. Verma, who was incharge of the ICU in Safdarjung Hospital at the relevant time makes it limpid that even though the prosecutrix was not able to speak, yet she was conscious and oriented and was in a position to make the statement by gestures.	None
The contention that the third dying declaration made through gestures lacks credibility and that the same ought to have been videographed, in our view, is totally sans substance.	None
The dying declaration recorded on the basis of nods and gestures is not only admissible but also possesses evidentiary value, the extent of which shall depend upon who recorded the statement.	None
In the instant case, the dying declaration was recorded by PW30, Mr. Pawan Kumar, Metropolitan Magistrate.	None
A perusal of the questions and the simple answers by way of multiple choice put to the prosecutrix is manifest of the fact that those questions and answers were absolutely simple, effective and indispensable.	None
The dying declaration recorded by PW30, Ex.PW30/D, though by nods and gestures and writings, inspires confidence and has been rightly relied upon by the trial Court as well as the High Court.	None
Videography of the dying declaration is only a measure of caution and in case it is not taken care of, the effect of it would not be fatal for the case and does not, in any circumstance, compel the court to completely discard that particular dying declaration.	None
In Meesala Ramakrishan v. State of A.P., (1994) 4 SCC 182 this Court, while admitting the dying declaration made through gestures, made the following observations 20.	None
that dying declaration recorded on the basis of nods and gestures is not only admissible but possesses evidentiary value, the extent of which shall depend upon who recorded the statement, what is his educational attainment, what gestures and nods were made, what were the questions asked  whether they were simple or complicated  and how effective or understandable the nods and gestures were.	None
In B. Shashikala v. State of A.P., (2004) 13 SCC 249 it was observed that The evidence of PW 8 is absolutely clear and unambiguous as regards the manner in which he recorded the statement of the deceased with the help of PW 4.	None
It is also evident that he also has knowledge of Hindi although he may not be able to read and write or speak in the said language.	None
His evidence also shows that he has taken all precautions and care while recording the statement.	None
Furthermore, he had the opportunity of recording the statement of the deceased upon noticing her gesture.	None
The court in a situation of this nature is also entitled to take into consideration the circumstances which were prevailing at the time of recording the statement of the deceased.	None
Appreciating the third dying declaration recorded on the basis of gestures, nods and writings on the base of aforesaid pronouncements, we have no hesitation in holding that the dying declaration made through signs, gestures or by nods are admissible as evidence, if proper care was taken at the time of recording the statement.	None
The only caution the court ought to take is that the person recording the dying declaration is able to notice correctly as to what the declarant means by answering by gestures or nods.	None
In the present case, this caution was aptly taken, as the person who recorded the prosecutrixs dying declaration was the Metropolitan Magistrate and he was satisfied himself as regards the mental alertness and fitness of the prosecutrix, and recorded the dying declaration of the prosecutrix by noticing her gestures and by her own writings.189.	None
Considering the facts and circumstances of the present case and upon appreciation of the evidence and the material on record, in our view, all the three dying declarations are consistent with each other and well corroborated with other evidence and the trial court as well as the High Court has correctly placed reliance upon the dying declarations of the prosecutrix to record the conviction.	None
Insertion of the iron rod Presently, we shall advert to the contentions raised as regards the use of iron rod for causing rectovaginal injury.	None
The case of the prosecution is that the accused, in most inhumane and unfeeling manner, inserted iron rod in the rectum and vagina of the prosecutrix and took out the internal organs of the prosecutrix from the vaginal and anal opening while pulling out the said iron rod.	Arguments of Respondent
They also took out the internal organs of the prosecutrix by inserting iron rod in the vagina of the prosecutrix thereby causing dangerous injuries.	Arguments of Respondent
Two iron rods, Ex.P49/1 and Ex.P49/2, were recovered vide seizure memo Ex.	None
PW74/G by the Investigating Officer, PW80, at the instance of accused Ram Singh (since deceased).	None
As per Ex.PW49/A, the internal injuries sustained by the victim were like vaginal tear, profused bleeding from vagina, rectal tear communicating with vaginal tear and other injuries.	None
PW50, Dr. Raj Kumar Chejara, and the surgery team operated the prosecutrix in the intervening night of 16/17.12.2012 and the operative findings are as under a. collection of around 500ml of blood in peritoneal cavityb.	None
stomach pale,c. duodenum contusedd.	None
jejunum contused bruised at whole of the length and lacerated transected at many places.	None
First transaction was 5cm away from DJ junction.	None
Second one was 2 feet from the DJ, after that there was transaction and laceration at many places.	None
Jejunal loop was of doubtful viability.	None
Lieum  whole lieum was totally contused and it was of doubtful viability.	None
Distanl lieum was completely detached from the mesentry till ICJ (ileocaecal junction).	None
It was completely devascularized.e.	None
Large bowel was also contused, bruised and of doubtful viability.	None
Descending colon was lacerated vertically downward in such a manner that it was completely opened.f.	None
Sigmoid colon rectum was lacerated at many places.	None
Linearlyu, mucosa was detached completely at places, a portion of it around 10cm was prolapsing through perineal wound.g.	None
Liver and spleen was normal.h.	None
Both sides retro peritoneal (posterior wall of the abdomen) haematoma present.i.	None
Mesentry and omentum was totally contused and bruised.j.	None
Vaginal tear present, recto vaginal septum was completely torn.	None
PW80, SI Pratibha Sharma, the Investigating Officer, deposed before the trial court that accused Ram Singh had led her inside the bus, Ex.P1 and had taken out two iron rods from the shelf of the drivers cabin.	None
One of the rods, 59 cm in length, was primarily used for changing punctured tyres it was hooked from one end and chiseled from the other.	None
It also had multiple serrations on both the ends.	None
The other rod was of silver colour, hollow and 70 cm long.	None
This rod formed part of a hydraulic jack and was used as its lever, Ex.PW49/G. The rods were blood stained and the recovered rods were sealed with the seal of PS and were deposited in the Malkhana.	None
On 24.12.2012, the said iron rods along with the sample seal were sent to CFSL, CBI for examination through SI Subhash, PW74, vide RC No. 178/21/12, proved as Ex.	None
PW77/R. The DNA report prepared by Dr. B.K. Mohapatra, PW45, suggests that the DNA profile developed from the bloodstains from both the iron rods is consistent with the DNA profile of the prosecutrix.	None
Mr. Sharma, learned counsel for the appellants, has countered the prosecution case on the use of iron rods.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has drawn support from the medical records and the testimony of the witnesses as also the prosecutrix to assert the aforesaid submission.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that the prosecution has fabricated the story as regards the use of iron rods only to falsely implicate all the accused in the death of the prosecutrix.	Arguments of Petitioner
The defence has refuted the use of iron rods by the accused on the ground that the informant as well as the prosecutrix did not mention about the use of iron rods in their first statements.	Arguments of Petitioner
The main contention of the accused is that the prosecutrix herself, in her first statement given to Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, PW49, Ex.	None
PW49/A, failed to disclose the use of iron rods.	None
He relies on the absence of the words iron rods in Ex.	None
PW49/A to fortify this submission.	None
He contends that as recorded by PW49, the prosecutrix was in a fit state of mind for she even gave her residential address after undergoing the traumatic experience, but she failed to mention that the accused persons also used the iron rods on her, a fact that would have had a bearing on her treatment.	Arguments of Petitioner
The aforesaid proponement is not sustainable as MLC, Ex.PW49/A, of the prosecutrix suggests that she was brought to the hospital in a traumatized state with grievous injuries and she was cold and clammy, i.e., whitish (due to vasoconstriction) and had lost a lot of blood.	None
As per Ex.PW49/A, the prosecutrix was sure of intercourse to have been committed twice along with rectal penetration whereafter	None
she did not remember intercourse.	None
It is worthy to note that she was oscillating between consciousness and unconsciousness at the time of the incident and there was loss of lot of blood by the time she had reached the hospital which is evident from Ex.	None
PW49/BMLC.	None
A victim who has just suffered a ghastly and extremely frightening incident cannot be expected to immediately come out of the state of shock and state the finest details of the incident.	None
The subsequent dying declarations of the prosecutrix corroborated by the medical evidence cannot be disregarded merely on the ground that the use of iron rods is not substantiated by the prosecutrixs first statement.195.	None
The gravity and hideousness of the injuries caused to the prosecutrix, as has already been discussed above, clearly shows the use of iron rods by the accused.	None
The injuries caused to the prosecutrix by incessantly and abominably injuring her private parts using the concerned iron rods were so grave that death was the inevitable consequence.	None
As already noted, both the iron rods, Ex.P49/1 and Ex.P49/2, were recovered at the instance of accused Ram Singh from inside the concerned bus.	None
The DNA profile developed from the blood stains obtained from the iron rods is also consistent with the DNA profile of the prosecutrix.	None
In such circumstances, merely because the finger prints of the accused were not obtained from the iron rods, it cannot be concluded that the accused were not linked with the concerned iron rods.	None
Accused Ram Singh himself had the iron rods recovered to the Investigating Officer.	None
Furthermore, the dying declaration of the prosecutrix, which is highly reliable, clearly establishes the horrendous use of iron rods by the accused persons.196.	None
The iron rods were sent for forensic examination to the CFSL.	None
The DNA profile developed from the blood stains obtained from the iron rods recovered at the instance of accused Ram Singh was found to be of female origin and were found to be consistent with the DNA profile of the prosecutrix.	None
Hence, the factum of insertion of iron rods in the private parts of the prosecutrix is also fortified by the scientific evidence.197.	None
PW1, in his chief examination, deposed that he was severely assaulted by the accused with iron rods on his head and the rest of his body.	None
It is submitted that as per MLC of PW1, Ex.PW51/A, the nature of injuries sustained by PW1 were simple.	None
It is contended that if PW1 was beaten with the iron rod in the manner alleged by him, he would have sustained more serious injuries.	None
It is canvassed that PW1 sustained only simple injuries which leads to an inference that the iron rod was not used in the manner stated by the prosecution.	None
Of course, as per Ex.PW51/A, PW1 sustained simple injuries but as seen from Ex.PW51/A, there was also nasal bleeding from his nose and PW1 was also vomiting.	None
Merely because the injuries sustained by PW1 were opined to be of simple nature, the use of iron rods cannot be doubted.	None
Learned counsel for the appellants further stressed on the point that PW1 neither in his MLC, Ex. PW51/A, nor in his complaint, Ex.PW1/A, mentioned the use of iron rod the description of bus or the names of the accused.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this regard, it has to be kept in mind that the purpose of FIR is mainly to set the criminal law in motion and not to lay down every minute detail and the entire gamut of the evidence relating to the case and, therefore, nonmention of use of iron rods in the FIR does not remotely create a dent in the case of the prosecution.	None
When the subsequent statements of the prosecutrix well corroborated by the medical evidence are available, it is completely immaterial that the statement of PW1 does not mention the use of iron rods.	None
Thus, PW1s omission to state the factum of use of iron rods in his complaint or MLC is not fatal to the case of the prosecution.199.	None
It is apposite to state here that nonmention of the use of iron rods in PW1s statement has been a ground for giving rise to suspicion of his testimony.	None
We find it difficult to comprehend as to how PW1 could have been aware of any use of iron rods against the prosecutrix.	None
PW1 was being held by the accused towards the front of the bus, while the prosecutrix was being raped at the rear side of the bus and the lights of the bus also had been turned off.	None
His statement in his complaint, Ex.PW1/A, that he heard the prosecutrix shouting and crying and that her voice was oscillating is consistent with the narration of facts as also the medical records.200.	None
The second statement of the prosecutrix recorded in Ex.	None
PW27/A by PW27, Smt.	None
Usha Chaturvedi, has detailed the account of the entire incident specifying the role of each accused gang rape unnatural sex committed upon her and the injuries caused in her vagina and rectum by use of iron rod and by inserting of hands by the accused are mentioned.	None
This statement, in fact, bears the date and signature of the prosecutrix and records that the accused committed gang rape on her, inserted iron rod in the vagina and through anal opening causing injuries to the internal organs of the prosecutrix.	None
The subsequent statement of the prosecutrix also affirms the above facts.	None
That apart, as per the medical opinion Ex.PW49/G given by PW49, the rectovaginal injury of the prosecutrix could be caused by the rods recovered from the bus.	None
Anatomy argument Learned counsel for the appellants also submitted that if the rods purported to be used had actually been inserted through the vagina, it would have first destroyed the uterus before the intestines were pulled out.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that there were no rods related injuries in her uterus and medical science too does not assist the prosecution in their claim that the iron rods were used as a weapon for penetration.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sharma placed reliance on1.	Arguments of Petitioner
the first OT notes, Ex.	None
PW50/A that were made following the first operation of the prosecutrix on 17.12.2012 and where the following was recorded uterus, B L tubes and ovaries seen and healthy 2.	None
the case sheet of the operation conducted on 19.12.2012, presented as Ex.	None
PW50/D, wherein the following was recorded Gynae findings Cx, vaginal vault and ant vaginal wall (H) 3.	None
the postmortem report, Ex. PW34/A, that was prepared in Mount Elizabeth Hospital, Health Science Authority, Singapore, by the Autopsy doctor, Dr. Paul Chui on 29.12.2012 and where the following was recorded Uterus, Tubes and OvariesUterus, tubes and ovaries were present in their normal anatomical positions.	None
The uterus measured 8cm x 5cm x 3.5cm.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thin fibrinopurulent adhesions were present on the serosal surfaces of the uterus and the adnexae.	Arguments of Petitioner
Cervix appeared normal and the os was closed.	Arguments of Petitioner
There were no cervical erosions and no haemorrhages on the intravaginal aspect of the cervix.	Arguments of Petitioner
Cut sections showed thin endometrium and normal myometrium.	Arguments of Petitioner
Tubes were normal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Both ovaries were normal in size.	Arguments of Petitioner
Cut sections of both ovaries showed corpus lutea, the largest of which was present in the right ovary.	None
The learned counsel for the appellants submit that that if the doctors in the surgery team did not find the uterus damaged, then it cannot be claimed that the rod was inserted in her private parts and intestines were pulled out.	Arguments of Petitioner
The aforesaid submission can be singularly rejected without much discussion on the foundation that a question to that effect was not put to the doctors in their respective crossexaminations.	None
However, instead of summary rejection, we shall deal with it for the sake of our satisfaction and also to meet the contention.	None
While it may be so that the uterus, tubes and the cervix were not damaged, that does not mean that the intestines could not have been damaged as they have been.	None
It stands to reason based on common understanding and medical science to allay this contention.	None
First, it is nowhere the stance that the rod was inserted only through the vagina.	None
The prosecutrix herself had stated in her dying declarations that she was raped through the vagina as also the anus, Ex.	None
PW27/A. The anus is directly connected to the intestines via the rectum and, thus, deep penetration by use of a rod or other long object could have caused injuries to the bowels intestines.	None
To appreciate the above contention, it is necessary to understand the anatomy and position of the uterus.	None
We may profitably refer to the following excerpts from Grays Anatomy Descriptive and Applied, 34th Edn.	None
Orient Longman Publication at pages 1572 and 1579 THE UTERUS	None
The uterus, or womb, is a hollow, thickwalled, muscular organ situated in the lesser pelvis between the urinary bladder in front and the rectum behind.	None
Into its upper part the uterine tubes open one on each side, while below, its cavity communicates with that of the vagina.	None
When the ova are discharged from the ovaries, they are carried to the uterine cavity through the uterine tubes.	None
If an ovum be fertilized it embeds itself in the uterine wall and is normally retained in the uterus until prenatal development is completed, the uterus undergoing changes in size and structure to accommodate itself to the needs of the growing embryo.	None
After parturition the uterus returns almost to its former condition, though it is somewhat larger than in the virgin state.	None
For general descriptive purposes the adult virgin uterus is taken as the type form.	None
In the virgin state the uterus is flattened from before backwards and is pearshaped, with the narrow end directed downwards and backwards.	None
It lies between the bladder below and in front, and the sigmoid colon and rectum above and behind, and is completely below the level of the pelvic inlet.	None
The long axis of the uterus usually lies approximately in the axis of the pelvic inlet (p.440), but as the organ is freely movable its position varies with the state of distension of the bladder and rectum.	None
Except when much displaced by a distended bladder, it forms almost a right angle with the vagina, since the axis of the vagina correspond to the axes of the cavity and outlet of the lesser pelvis (p. 440) (at page 1572)THE VAGINA	None
The vagina is a canal which extends from the vestibule, or cleft between the labia minora, to the uterus, and is situated, behind the bladder and urethra, and in front of the rectum and anal canal it is directed upwards and backwards, its axis forming with that of the uterus an angle of over ninety degrees, opening forwards (at page	None
1579)And	None
A Fascimile Grays Anatomy (at page 723) Black Rose PublicationsTHE VAGINARelationsIts anterior surface is concave, and in relation with the base of the bladder, and with the urethra.	None
Its posterior surface is convex, and connected to the anterior wall of the rectum, for the lower threefourths of its extent The aforesaid excerpts establish that the vagina and uterus are almost at right angles to each other and the rectum is only separated by a wall of tissue.	None
The pelvic cavity as set forth in the diagram in the book supports the same.	None
The exhibits relating to injuries may be noted.	None
OT notes from 17.12.2012 and 19.12.2012 read as under OT NotesPW	None
50/B Call received from Dr. Gaurav and Dr. Piyush at approx.	None
4.00 a.m. from noty OT.	None
Immediately reached OT and reviewed the details of internal injury (as mentioned in OT notes)	None
the condition of the small and large bowel extremely bad for any definitive repair.	None
The condition explained to the mother of the patient and the police officials present.	None
Case discussed with Dr. S.K. Jain.	None
Int.	None
I C telephonically.	None
The operative findings which are seen from the examination done by the Gynaecologist and the Surgeons are Perineal Abdominal findings Rectum is longitudinally torn on anterior aspect in continuation with tear.	None
This tear is continuing upward involving sigmoid colon descending colon which is splayed open.	None
The margins are edematous.	None
There are multiple longitudinal tear in the mucosa of rectosigmoid area.	None
Transverse colon was also torn and gangrenous.	None
Hepatic flexure ascending colon and caecum were gangrenous and multiple perforation at many places.	None
Terminal item approximately 1 feet loosely hanging in the abdominal cavity.	None
It was avulsed from its mesentery and was nonviable.	None
Rest of small bowel was nonenlistend with only patens of mucosa at places and border of the mesentery was contused.	None
This contused mesentery border initially appeared (during first surgery) as contused small bowel.	None
Jejunostomy stoma was gangrenous for approximately 2 cm.	None
Stomach and duodenum was distended but healthy.	None
Surgical Procedure Resection of gangrenous terminal ileum, caecum, appendix, ascending colon, hepatic flexure and transverse colon was done.	None
Resection of necrotic jejunal stoma with closure of duodenojejunal flexure in two layers by 30 viaeny.	None
Diverting lateral tube dudoenostomy (with 18F Folleys catheter) brought through right flank.	None
Tube gastrostomy was added as another decompressive measures (28 size apotere tube was used)	None
Tube gastrostomy was brought and from previous jejunostomy site.	None
Abdominal drain placed in pelvis.	None
Rectal sheath closed by using No. 1 prolene interrupted sutures.	None
Skin closed by using 10 nylone.	None
Perineal wound packed with Betadine soaked gauze piece.	None
TBandage applied ASD done for abdominal wound.	None
Patient tolerated procedure and was shifted back to ICUI.Post OP Advise1.	None
NPO2.	None
CRTA3.	None
IVF as per CVP and output by ICU team.4.	None
Injection menopenum Limezolid to be continued as before.5.	None
Injection metronidazole 100ml IV TDS.6.	None
Injection Pantoprozole 20 mg IV OD7.	None
Strict I O charting.8.	None
Rest of the treatment as advised by ICU team.	None
From the nature of the injuries noted in the OT Notes, the rectum was longitudinally torn and transverse colon was torn.	None
From the PostMortem Certificate, the uterus was found in position (no injuries to uterus).	None
If the rod was inserted in the vagina, having regard to the fact that the injury within the vagina was only in the posterior surface, it indicates that the rod was pushed inside with a downward force and not upward (which could have resulted in injury to the uterus) and it perhaps tunnelled its way through the vagina into the rectal cavity and the bowels.	None
Therefore, merely because no injuries to the uterus of the victim were noticed, that does not lead to the conclusion that iron rod was not used.	None
Thus, the submission that has been raised with immense enthusiasm and ambition to create a concavity in the case of the prosecution on this score deserves to be repelled and we do so.	None
Analysis of evidence pertaining to DNA Having dealt with the aspect pertaining to insertion of rod, it is apposite to advert to the medical evidence and post mortem report.	None
We have, while dealing with other aspects, referred to certain aspects including DNA analysis of medical evidence but the same requires to be critically dealt with as the prosecution has placed hevy reliance upon it.	None
DNA is the abbreviation of Deoxyribo Nucleic Acid.	None
It is the basic genetic material in all human body cells.	None
It is not contained in red blood corpuscles.	None
It is, however, present in white corpuscles.	None
It carries the genetic code.	None
DNA structure determines human character, behaviour and body characteristics.	None
DNA profiles are encrypted sets of numbers that reflect a persons DNA makeup which, in forensics, is used to identify human beings.	None
DNA is a complex molecule.	None
It has a double helix structure which can be compared with a twisted rope ladder.	None
The nature and characteristics of DNA had been succinctly explained by Lord Justice Phillips in Regina v. Alan James Doheny Gary Adams, 1997 (1) Criminal Appeal Reports 369.	None
In the above case, the accused were convicted relying on results obtained by comparing DNA profiles obtained from a stain left at the scene of the crime with DNA profiles obtained from a sample of blood provided by the appellant.	None
In the above context, with regard to DNA, the following was stated by Lord Justice Phillips Deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA, consists of long ribbonlike molecules, the chromosomes, 46 of which lie tightly coiled in nearly every cell of the body.	None
These chromosomes  23 provided from the mother and 23 from the father at conception, form the genetic blueprint of the body.	None
Different sections of DNA have different identifiable and discrete characteristics.	None
When a criminal leaves a stain of blood or semen at the scene of the crime it may prove possible to extract from that crime stain sufficient sections of DNA to enable a comparison to be made with the same sections extracted from a sample of blood provided by the suspect.	None
This process is complex and we could not hope to describe it more clearly or succintly than did Lord Taylor C.J. in the case of Deen (transcriptDecember 21, 1993), so we shall gratefully adopt his description.	None
The process of DNA profiling starts with DNA being extracted from the crime stain and also from a sample taken from the suspect.	None
In each case the DNA is cut into smaller lengths by specific enzymes.	None
The fragments produced are sorted according to size by a process of electrophoresis.	None
This involves placing the fragments in a gel and drawing them electromagnetically along a track through the gel.	None
The fragments with smaller molecular weight travel further than the heavier ones.	None
The pattern thus created is transferred from the gel onto a membrane.	None
Radioactive DNA probes, taken from elsewhere, which bind with the sequences of most interest in the sample DNA are then applied.	None
After the excess of the DNA probe is washed off, an Xray film is placed over the membrane to record the band pattern.	None
This produces an auto radiograph which can be photographed.	None
When the crime stain DNA and the sample DNA from the suspect have been run in separate tracks through the gel, the resultant autoradiographs can be compared.	None
The two DNA profiles can then be said either to match or not.	None
In the United States, in an early case Frye v. United States, 54 App. D.C. 46 (1923)	None
it was laid down that scientific evidence is admissible only if the principle on which it is based is substantially established to have general acceptance in the field to which it belonged.	None
The US Supreme Court reversed the above formulation in Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 113 S.CT.	None
2786 (1993) stating thus Although the Frye decision itself focused exclusively on novel scientific techniques, we do not read the requirements of Rule 702 to apply specially or exclusively to unconventional evidence.	None
Of course, wellestablished propositions are less likely to be challenged than those that are novel, and they are more handily defended.	None
Indeed, theories that are so firmly established as to have attained the status of scientific law, such as the laws of thermodynamics, properly are subject to judicial notice under Fed.	None
Rule Evid.201.13.	None
This is not to say that judicial interpretation, as opposed to adjudicative fact finding, does not share basic characteristics of the scientific endeavor The work of a judge is in one sense enduring and in another ephemeral In the endless process of testing and retesting, there is a constant rejection of the dross and a constant retention of whatever is pure and sound and fine.	None
B.Cardozo, The nature of the Judicial Process 178, 179 (1921).	None
The principle was summarized by Blackmun, J., as follows To summarize general acceptance is not a necessary precondition to the admissibility of scientific evidence under the Federal Rules of Evidence, but the Rules of Evidenceespecially Rule 702do assign to the trial judge the task of ensuring that an experts testimony both rests on a reliable foundation and is relevant to the task at hand.	None
Pertinent evidence based on scientifically valid principles will satisfy those demands.	None
The inquiries of the District Court and the Court of Appeals focused almost exclusively on general acceptance, as gauged by publication and the decisions of other courts.	None
Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is vacated and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.	None
After the above judgment, the DNA Test has been frequently applied in the United States of America.	None
In District Attorneys Office for the Third Judicial District et al. v. William G. Osborne, 129 Supreme Court Reporter 2308	None
Chief Justice Roberts of the Supreme Court of United States, while referring to the DNA Test, stated as follows DNA testing has an unparalleled ability both to exonerate the wrongly convicted and to identify the guilty.	None
It has the potential to significantly improve both the criminal justice system and police investigative practices.	None
The Federal Government and the States have recognized this, and have developed special approaches to ensure that this evidentiary tool can be effectively incorporated into established criminal procedureusually but not always through legislation Modern DNA testing can provide powerful new evidence unlike anything known before.	None
Since its first use in criminal investigations in the mid1980s, there have been several major advances in DNA technology, culminating in STR technology.	None
It is now often possible to determine whether a biological tissue matches a suspect with near certainty.	None
While of course many criminal trials proceed without any forensic and scientific testing at all, there is no technology comparable to DNA testing for matching tissues when such evidence is at issue.	None
DNA technology as a part of Forensic Science and scientific discipline not only provides guidance to investigation but also supplies the Court accrued information about the tending features of identification of criminals.	None
The recent advancement in modern biological research has regularized Forensic Science resulting in radical help in the administration of justice.	None
In our country also like several other developed and developing countries, DNA evidence is being increasingly relied upon by courts.	None
After the amendment in the Criminal Procedure Code by the insertion of Section 53A by Act 25 of 2005, DNA profiling has now become a part of the statutory scheme.	None
Section 53A relates to the examination of a person accused of rape by a medical practitioner.	None
Similarly, under Section 164A inserted by Act 25 of 2005, for medical examination of the victim of rape, the description of material taken from the person of the woman for DNA profiling is must.	None
Section 53A subsection (2) as well as Section 164(A) subsection (2) are to the following effect Section 53A. Examination of person accused of rape by Medical Practitioner.(1) (2) The registered medical practitioner conducting such examination shall, without delay, examine such person and prepare a report of his examination giving the following particulars, namely(i) the name and address of the accused and of the person by whom he was brought,(ii) the age of the accused,(iii) marks of injury, if any, on the person of the accused,(iv) the description of material taken from the person of the accused for DNA profiling, and(v) other material particulars in reasonable detail.	None
Section 164A. Medical Examination of the victim of rape.(1) (2) The registered medical practitioner, to whom such woman is sent, shall, without delay, examine her person and prepare a report of his examination giving the following particulars, namely(i) the name and address of the woman and of the person by whom she was brought(ii)the age of the woman(iii) the description of material taken from the person of the woman for DNA profiling(iv) marks of injury, if any, on the person of the woman(v) general mental condition of the woman and(vi)	None
other material particulars in reasonable detail.	None
This Court had the occasion to consider various aspects of DNA profiling and DNA reports.	None
K.T. Thomas, J. in Kamti Devi (Smt.) and another v. Poshi Ram, (2001) 5 SCC 311 observed We may remember that Section 112 of the Evidence Act was enacted at a time when the modern scientific advancements with deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) as well as ribonucleic acid (RNA) tests were not even in contemplation of the legislature.	None
The result of a genuine DNA test is said to be scientifically accurate.	None
In Pantangi Balarama Venkata Ganesh v. State of Andhra Pradesh, (2009) 14 SCC 607 a twoJudge Bench had explained as to what is DNA in the following manner Submission of Mr Sachar that the report of DNA should not be relied upon, cannot be accepted.	None
What is DNA?	None
It meansDeoxyribonucleic acid, which is found in the chromosomes of the cells of living beings is the blueprint of an individual.	None
DNA decides the characteristics of the person such as the colour of the skin, type of hair, nails and so on.	None
Using this genetic fingerprinting, identification of an individual is done like in the traditional method of identifying fingerprints of offenders.	None
The identification is hundred per cent precise, experts opine.	None
There cannot be any doubt whatsoever that there is a need of quality control.	None
Precautions are required to be taken to ensure preparation of high molecular weight DNA, complete digestion of the samples with appropriate enzymes, and perfect transfer and hybridization of the blot to obtain distinct bands with appropriate control.	None
(See article of Lalji Singh, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad in DNA profiling and its applications.)	None
But in this case there is nothing to show that such precautions were not taken.42.	None
Indisputably, the evidence of the experts is admissible in evidence in terms of Section 45 of the Evidence Act, 1872.	None
In crossexamination, PW 46 had stated as underIf the DNA fingerprint of a person matches with that of a sample, it means that the sample has come from that person only.	None
The probability of two persons except identical twins having the same DNA fingerprint is around 1 in 30 billion world population.	None
In Santosh Kumar Singh v. State Through CBI, (2010) 9 SCC 747 which was a case of a young girl who was raped and murdered, the DNA reports were relied upon by the High Court which were approved by this Court and it was held thus We feel that the trial court was not justified in rejecting the DNA report, as nothing adverse could be pointed out against the two experts who had submitted it.	None
We must, therefore, accept the DNA report as being scientifically accurate and an exact science as held by this Court in Kamti Devi v. Poshi Ram (supra).	None
In arriving at its conclusions the trial court was also influenced by the fact that the semen swabs and slides and the blood samples of the appellant had not been kept in proper custody and had been tampered with, as already indicated above.	None
We are of the opinion that the trial court was in error on this score.	None
We, accordingly, endorse the conclusions of the High Court on Circumstance 9.	None
In Inspector of Police, Tamil Nadu v. John David, (2011) 5 SCC 509 a young boy studying in MBBS Course was brutally murdered by his senior.	None
The torso and head were recovered from different places which were identified by the father of the deceased.	None
For confirming the said facts, the blood samples of the father and mother of the deceased were taken which were subject to DNA test.	None
From the DNA, the identification of the deceased was proved.	None
Paragraph 60 of the decision is reproduced below 60.	None
The said fact was also proved from the DNA test conducted by PW 77.	None
PW 77 had compared the tissues taken from the severed head, torso and limbs and on scientific analysis he has found that the same gene found in the blood of PW1 and Baby Ponnusamy was found in the recovered parts of the body and that therefore they should belong to the only missing son of PW 1.	None
In Krishan Kumar Malik v. State of Haryana, (2011) 7 SCC 130 in a gang rape case when the prosecution did not conduct DNA test or analysis and matching of semen of the appellantaccused with that found on the undergarments of the prosecutrix, this Court held that after the incorporation of Section 53A in CrPC, it has become necessary for the prosecution to go in for DNA test in such type of cases.	None
The relevant paragraph is reproduced below Now, after the incorporation of Section 53A in the Cr.P.C w.e.f 23.06.2006, brought to our notice by the learned counsel for the respondent State, it has become necessary for the prosecution to go in for DNA test in such type of cases, facilitating the prosecution to prove its case against the accused.	None
Prior to 2006, even without the aforesaid specific provision in CrPC the prosecution could have still restored to this procedure of getting the DNA test or analysis and matching of semen of the appellant with that found on the undergarments of the prosecutrix to make it a foolproof case, but they did not do so, thus they must face the consequences.	None
In Surendra Koli v. State of Uttar Pradesh and others, (2011) 4 SCC 80 the appellant, a serial killer, was awarded death sentence which was confirmed by the High Court.	None
While confirming the death sentence, this Court relied on the result of the DNA test conducted on the part of the body of the deceased girl.	None
Para 12 is reproduced below The DNA test of Rimpa by CDFD, a pioneer institute in Hyderabad matched with that of blood of her parents and brother.	None
The doctors at AIIMS have put the parts of the deceased girls which have been recovered by the doctors of AIIMS together.	None
These bodies have been recovered in the presence of the doctors of AIIMS at the pointing out by the accused Surendra Koli.	None
Thus, recovery is admissible under Section 27 of the Evidence Act.	None
In Mohammed Ajmal Mohammad Amir Kasab alias Abu Mujahid v. State of Maharashtra, (2012) 9 SCC 1 the accused was awarded death sentence on charges of killing large number of innocent persons on 26th November, 2008 at Bombay.	None
The accused with others had come from Pakistan using a boat Kuber and several articles were recovered from Kuber.	None
The stains of sweat, saliva and other bodily secretions on those articles were subjected to DNA test and the DNA test matched with several accused.	None
The Court observed It is seen above that among the articles recovered from Kuber were a number of blankets, shawls and many other items of clothing.	None
The stains of sweat, saliva and other bodily secretions on those articles were subjected to DNA profiling and, excepting Imran Babar (deceased Accused 2), Abdul Rahman Bada (deceased Accused 5), Fahadullah (deceased Accused 7) and Shoaib (deceased Accused 9), the rest of six accused were connected with various articles found and recovered from the Kuber.	None
The appellants DNA matched the DNA profile from a sweat stain detected on one of the jackets.	None
A chart showing the matching of the DNA of the different accused with DNA profiles from stains on different articles found and recovered from the Kuber is annexed at the end of the judgment as Schedule III.	None
In Sandeep v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (2012) 6 SCC 107 the facts related to the murder of pregnant paramour girlfriend and unborn child of the accused.	None
The DNA report confirmed that the appellant was the father of the unborn child.	None
The Court, relying on the DNA report, stated as follows In the light of the said expert evidence of the Junior Scientific Officer it is too late in the day for the appellant Sandeep to contend that improper preservation of the foetus would have resulted in a wrong report to the effect that the accused Sandeep was found to be the biological father of the foetus received from the deceased Jyoti.	None
As the said submission is not supported by any relevant material on record and as the appellant was not able to substantiate the said argument with any other supporting material, we do not find any substance in the said submission.	None
The circumstance, namely, the report of DNA in having concluded that accused Sandeep was the biological father of the recovered foetus of Jyoti was one other relevant circumstance to prove the guilt of the said accused.	None
In Rajkumar v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (2014) 5 SCC 353 the Court was dealing with a case of rape and murder of a 14 year old girl.	None
The DNA report established the presence of semen of the appellant in the vaginal swab of the prosecutrix.	None
The conviction was recorded relying on the DNA report.	None
In the said context, the following was stated The deceased was 14 years of age and a student in VIth standard which was proved from the school register and the statement of her father Iknis Jojo (PW1).	None
Her age has also been mentioned in the FIR as 14 years.	None
So far as medical evidence is concerned, it was mentioned that the deceased prosecutrix was about 16 years of age.	None
So far as the analysis report of the material sent and the DNA report is concerned, it revealed that semen of the appellant was found on the vaginal swab of the deceased.	None
The clothes of the deceased were also found having appellants semen spots.	None
The hair which were found near the place of occurrence were found to be that of the appellant.	None
In Nandlal Wasudeo Badwaik v. Lata Nandlal Badwaik and another, (2014) 2 SCC 576 the appellant, father of the child born to his wife, questioned the paternity of the child on the ground that she did not stay with him for the last two years.	None
The Court directed for DNA test.	None
The DNA result opined that the appellant was not the biological father of the child.	None
The Court also had the occasion to consider Section 112 of the Evidence Act which raises a presumption that birth during marriage is conclusive proof of legitimacy.	None
The Court relied on the DNA test holding the DNA test to be scientifically accurate.	None
The pertinent observations are extracted below The husbands plea that he had no access to the wife when the child was begotten stands proved by the DNA test report and in the face of it, we cannot compel the appellant to bear the fatherhood of a child, when the scientific reports prove to the contrary.	None
We are conscious that an innocent child may not be bastardised as the marriage between her mother and father was subsisting at the time of her birth, but in view of the DNA test reports and what we have observed above, we cannot forestall the consequence.	None
It is denying the truth.	None
Truth must triumph is the hallmark of justice.20.	None
As regards the authority of this Court in Kamti Devi, this Court on appreciation of evidence came to the conclusion that the husband had no opportunity whatsoever to have liaison with the wife.	None
There was no DNA test held in the case.	None
In the said background i.e. nonaccess of the husband to the wife, this Court held that the result of DNA test is not enough to escape from the conclusiveness of Section 112 of the Act.	None
The judgment has to be understood in the factual scenario of the said case.	None
The said judgment has not held that DNA test is to be ignored.	None
In fact, this Court has taken note of the fact that DNA test is scientifically accurate.	None
We hasten to add that in none of the cases referred to above, this Court confronted with a situation in which a DNA test report, in fact, was available and was in conflict with the presumption of conclusive proof of legitimacy of the child under Section 112 of the Evidence Act.	None
In view of what we have observed above, these judgments in no way advance the case of the respondents.	None
From the aforesaid authorities, it is quite clear that DNA report deserves to be accepted unless it is absolutely dented and for nonacceptance of the same, it is to be established that there had been no quality control or quality assurance.	None
If the sampling is proper and if there is no evidence as to tampering of samples, the DNA test report is to be accepted.225.	None
In order to establish a clear link between the accused persons and the incident at hand, the prosecution has also adduced scientific evidence in the form of DNA, fingerprint and bite mark analysis.226.	None
Various samples, for the purpose of DNA profiling, were lifted from the person of the prosecutrix the informant the accused, their clothes articles the dumping spot the iron rods the ashes of partly burnt clothes as well as from the offending bus.	None
PW45, Dr. B.K. Mohapatra, analysed the said DNA profiles and submitted his report thereof.	None
In his report, he concluded that the samples were authentic and capable of establishing the identities of the persons concerned beyond reasonable doubt.227.	None
After establishing the identities of each of the accused persons, the informant and the prosecutrix through DNA analysis, the DNA profiles generated from the remaining samples, where the identity of biological material found thereon needed to be ascertained, were matched with the DNA profiles of the prosecutrix, the informant and the accused, generated earlier from known samples.	None
Such an analysis cogently linked each of the accused with the victims as also with the crime scene.	None
A summary of the findings in the report submitted by PW45, Dr. B.K. Mohapatra, is as under CHART Further, a summary of the DNA analysis of the biological samples lifted from the material objects such as the bus, the iron rods, and the ash and unburnt pieces of clothes is also worth producing here CHART PW45, Dr. B.K. Mohapatra, has clearly testified in his crossexamination that all the experiments conducted by him confirmed to the guidelines and methodology documented in the Working Procedure Manuals of the laboratory which have been validated and recommended for use in the laboratory.	None
He further added that once a DNA profile is generated, its accuracy is 100.	None
The trial court and the High Court have consistently noted that the counsel for the defence did not raise any substantial ground to challenge the DNA report during the crossexamination of PW45.	None
In such circumstances, there is no reason to declare the DNA report as inaccurate, especially when it clearly links the accused persons with the incident.	None
Mr. Sharma, learned counsel appearing for appellants  Mukesh and Pawan Kumar Gupta, submitted that in the insant case, the DNA test cannot be treated to be accurate, for there was blood transfusion as the prosecutrix required blood and when there is mixing of blood, the DNA profiling is likely to differ.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is seemly to note, nothing had been put to the expert in his crossexamination in this regard.	None
As the authorities relating to DNA would show, if the quality control is maintained, it is treated to be quite accurate and as the same has been established, we are compelled to repel the said submission of Mr. Sharma.	None
The evidence relating to finger print analysis Next aspect that is required to be adverted is the evidence of fingerprint analysis adduced by the prosecution to establish the identity of the accused persons.	None
By virtue of the finger print analysis, the prosecution has tried mainly to establish the presence of the accused in the offending bus.	None
On 17.12.2012 and 18.12.2012, a team of experts from the CFSL had lifted chance finger prints from the concerned bus, Ex.P1, at Thyagraj Stadium.	None
On 28.12.2012, PW78, Inspector Anil Sharma of P.S. Vasant Vihar, the then S.H.O. of Police Station Vasant Vihar, requested the Director, CFSL for taking digital palm prints and foot prints of all the accused persons vide his letter Ex.	None
PW46/C. Pursuant to the said request made by PW78, Inspector Anil Sharma, the CFSL on 31.12.2012 took the finger palm prints and foot prints of the accused persons at Tihar Jail.	None
After comparing the chance prints lifted from the bus with the finger prints palm prints and foot prints of all the accused persons, PW46, Shri A.D. Shah, Senior Scientific Officer (Finger Prints), CFSL, CBI, submitted his report, Ex.PW46/D. As per the report, Ex.PW46/D, the result of the aforesaid examination of the Finger Print Division of the CFSL, CBI, New Delhi was that the chance prints of accused Vinay Sharma were found on the bus in question.	None
The relevant portion of the report is as under RESULT OF EXAMINATION1.	None
The chance print marked as Q.1 is identical with left palmprint specimen of Vinay Sharma S o Sh.	None
Hari Ram Sharma marked here as LPS28 on the slip marked here as S.28 (Matching ridge characteristics have been found in their relative positions in the chance palmprint and specimen palm print.	None
This forms the basis of the opinion that these prints are identical.	None
Eight of them have been marked with projected red lines with their detailed description are placed at Annexure1)II.	None
The chance print marked as Q.4 is identical with right thumb impression of Vinay Sharma S o Sh.	None
Hari Ram Sharma marked here as RTS23 on the slip marked here as S.23 (Matching ridge characteristics have been found in their relative positions in the chance print and specimen finger print.	None
This forms the basis of the opinion that these prints are identical.	None
Eight of them have been marked with projected red lines with their detailed description are placed at Annexure2).	None
The above report incontrovertibly proves that accused Vinay was present in the bus at the time of the incident.	None
Be it noted, the other chance prints were found to be unfit for comparison or different from specimen print.	None
The Odontology report Now, we shall analyse the Odontology report.	None
In todays world, Odontology is a branch of forensic science in which dental knowledge is applied to assist the criminal justice delivery system.	None
S. KeiserNielsen, an authority on Forensic Odontology defines the basic concept of Forensic Odontology in the following words Forensic odontology is that branch of odontology which in the interests of justice deals with the proper handling and examination of dental evidence and with the proper evaluation and presentation of dental findings.	None
Only a dentist can handle and examine dental evidence with any degree of accuracy therefore, this field is above all a dental field.	None
Professor Neilsen, elaborating on Forensic Odontology, further states There are three reasons for considering forensic odontology a welldefined and more or less independent subject1) it has objectives different from those at which conventional dental education aims 2) forensic dental work requires investigations and considerations different from those required in ordinary dental practice and 3) forensic dental reports and statements have to be presented in accordance with certain legal formalities in order to be of value to those requesting aid.	None
The area of forensic odontology consists of three major fields of activity1) the examination and evaluation of injuries to teeth, jaws, and oral tissues from various causes 2) the examination of bite marks with a view to the subsequent elimination or possible identification of a suspect as the originator and 3) the examination of dental remains (whether fragmentary or complete, and including all types of dental restoration) from unknown persons or bodies for the purpose of identification.	None
In the instant case, the prosecution has relied upon the odontology report, i.e., bite mark analysis report prepared by PW71, Dr. Ashith B. Acharya, to link the incident with the accused persons.	None
The Odontology report links accused Ram Singh and accused Akshay with the crime in question.	None
Dr. K.S. Narayan Reddy, in his book, Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology (Law, Practice and Procedure), Third Edition, 2010, Chapter VIII page 268, has extensively dealt with human bites, their patterns, the manner in which they should be lifted with a swab and moistened with sterile water and the manner in which such swabs need to be handled is delineated along with their usefulness in identification.	None
The High Court has also referred to the same.	None
It is as follows They are useful in identification because the alignment of teeth is peculiar to the individual.	None
Bite marks may be found in materials left at the place of crime e.g., foodstuffs, such as cheese, bread, butter, fruit, or in humans involved in assaults, when either the victim or the accused may show the marks, usually on the hands, fingers, forearms, nose and ears.	None
After making the aforesaid observations, the author dwells upon the various methods used for bite mark analysis including the photographic method, which method was utilized in the instant case.	None
The photographic method is described as under Photographic method The bite mark is fully photographed with two scales at right angle to one another in the horizontal plane.	None
Photographs of the teeth are taken by using special mirrors which allow the inclusion of all the teeth in the upper or lower jaws in one photograph.	None
The photographs of the teeth are matched with photographs or tracings of the teeth.	None
Tracings can be made from positive casts of a bite impression, inking the cutting edges of the front teeth.	None
These are transferred to transparent sheets, and superimposed over the photographs, or a negative photograph of the teeth is superimposed over the positive photograph of the bite.	None
Exclusion is easier than positive matching.	None
In the present case, the photographs of bite marks taken by PW66, Shri Asghar Hussein, of different parts of the body of the prosecutrix were examined by PW71, Dr. Ashith B. Acharya.	None
The photographs depicted the bite marks on the body of the prosecutrix.	None
The said bite marks found on the body of the victim were compared with the dental models of the suspects.	None
The analysis showed that at least three bite marks were caused by accused Ram Singh, whereas one bite mark has been identified to have been most likely caused by accused Akshay.	None
An excerpt from the report, Ex.	None
PW 71/C, of PW71, Dr. Ashith B. Acharya, has been extracted by the High Court.	None
It reads thus There is absence of any unexplainable discrepancies between the bite marks on Photograph No. 4 and the biting surfaces of one of the accused persons teeth, namely Ram Singh.	None
Therefore, there is reasonable medical certainty that the teeth on the dental models of the accused person named Ram Singh caused the bite marks visible on Photograph No 4 also the bite marks on Photograph Nos.1 and 2 show some degree of specificity to this accused persons teeth by virtue of a sufficient number of concordant points, including some corresponding unconventional individual characteristics.	None
Therefore, the teeth on the dental models of the accused person with the name Ram Singh probably also caused the bite marks visible on Photograph Nos.1 and 2x x	None
x x xThe comparison also shows that there is a concordance in terms of general alignment and angulation of the biting surfaces of the teeth of the lower jaw on the dental models of the accused person with the name Akshay and the corresponding bite marks visible on Photograph No.5.	None
In particular, the comparison revealed concordance between the biting surface of the teeth on the lower jaw of the dental models of the accused person with the name Akshay and the bite mark visible on Photograph No.5 in relation to the rotated left first incisor whose mesial surface pointed towards the tongue.	None
Overall, the bite mark shows some degree of specificity to the accused persons teeth by virtue of a number of concordant points, including one corresponding unconventional individual characteristic.	None
There is an absence of any unexplainable discrepancies between the bite mark and the biting surfaces of this accused persons teeth.	None
Therefore, the teeth on the dental models of the accused person with the name Akshay probably caused the bite marks visible on Photograph No.5.	None
Be it noted, the present is a case where the victims body contained various white bite marks.	None
Bite mark analysis play an important role in the criminal justice system.	None
Advanced development of technology such as laser scanning, scanning electron microscopy or cone beam computed tomography in forensic odontology is utilized to identify more details in bite marks and in the individual teeth of the bite.	None
Unlike fingerprints and DNA, bite marks lack the specificity and durability as the human teeth may change over time.	None
However, bite mark evidence has other advantages in the criminal justice system that links a specific individual to the crime or victim.	None
For a bite mark analysis, it must contain abundant information and the tooth that made the mark must be quite distinctive.240.	None
Bite marks in skin are photographed in cases where the suspect is apprehended.	None
A thorough dental combination is administered after dental examination of the suspect.	None
Final comparison of the details of the original mark with the dentation of the suspect is done by experts.241.	None
The bite marks generally include only a limited number of teeth.	None
The teeth and oral structure of the accused are examined by experts and, thereafter, bite marks are compared and reports are submitted.	None
Forensic Odontology is a science and the most common application of Forensic Odontology is for the purpose of identification of persons from their tooth structure.242.	None
Forensic Odontology has established itself as an important and indispensable science in medicolegal matters and expert evidence through various reports which have been utilized by courts in the administration of justice.	None
In the case at hand, the report is wholly credible because of matching of bite marks with the tooth structure of the accused persons and there is no reason to view the same with any suspicion.	None
Learned counsel for the appellants would only contend that the whole thing has been stagemanaged.	None
We are not impressed by the said submission, for the evidence brought on record cogently establish the injuries sustained by the prosecutrix and there is consistency between the injuries and the report.	None
We are not inclined to accept the hypothesis that bite marks have been managed.	None
Acceptability of the plea of alibi Presently, we shall deal with the plea of alibi as the same has been advanced with immense conviction.	None
It is well settled in law that when a plea of alibi is taken by an accused, the burden is upon him to establish the same by positive evidence after the onus as regards the presence on the spot is established by the prosecution.	None
In this context, we may usefully reproduce a few paragraphs from Binay Kumar Singh v. State of Bihar, (1997) 1 SCC 283	None
We must bear in mind that an alibi is not an exception (special or general) envisaged in the Penal Code, 1860 or any other law.	None
It is only a rule of evidence recognised in Section 11 of the Evidence Act that facts which are inconsistent with the fact in issue are relevant.	None
Illustration (a) given under the provision is worth reproducing in this contextThe question is whether A committed a crime at Calcutta on a certain date.	None
The fact that, on that date, A was at Lahore is relevant.	None
The Latin word alibi means elsewhere and that word is used for convenience when an accused takes recourse to a defence line that when the occurrence took place he was so far away from the place of occurrence that it is extremely improbable that he would have participated in the crime.	None
It is a basic law that in a criminal case, in which the accused is alleged to have inflicted physical injury to another person, the burden is on the prosecution to prove that the accused was present at the scene and has participated in the crime.	None
The burden would not be lessened by the mere fact that the accused has adopted the defence of alibi.	None
The plea of the accused in such cases need be considered only when the burden has been discharged by the prosecution satisfactorily.	None
But once the prosecution succeeds in discharging the burden it is incumbent on the accused, who adopts the plea of alibi, to prove it with absolute certainty so as to exclude the possibility of his presence at the place of occurrence.	None
When the presence of the accused at the scene of occurrence has been established satisfactorily by the prosecution through reliable evidence, normally the court would be slow to believe any counterevidence to the effect that he was elsewhere when the occurrence happened.	None
But if the evidence adduced by the accused is of such a quality and of such a standard that the court may entertain some reasonable doubt regarding his presence at the scene when the occurrence took place, the accused would, no doubt, be entitled to the benefit of that reasonable doubt.	None
For that purpose, it would be a sound proposition to be laid down that, in such circumstances, the burden on the accused is rather heavy.	None
It follows, therefore, that strict proof is required for establishing the plea of alibi.	None
underlining is ours The said principle has been reiterated in Gurpreet Singh v. State of Haryana, (2002) 8 SCC 18 Shaikh Sattar v. State of Maharashtra, (2010)	None
8 SCC 430 Jitender Kumar v. State of Haryana, (2012) 6 SCC 204 and Vijay Pal (supra).	None
We had earlier indicated that in their Section 313 CrPC statements, the accused have advanced the plea of alibi.	Arguments of Petitioner
Accused Pawan Kumar Gupta Kaalu has taken the plea of alibi stating, inter alia, that throughout the evening of 16.12.2012 till late night, he was in the DDA District Park, Hauz Khas, Opposite IIT Gate, New Delhi, watching a musical event organised in connection with Christmas Celebration and that he was never in the bus, Ex.P1, and had not committed any offence with the prosecutrix or with the informant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Before coming to the defence evidence led by him, we may refer to the answers given by him in response to the questions put to him in his statement under Section 313 CrPC wherein he has admitted that mobile No. 9711927157 belongs to him.	None
He further stated that he had consumed liquor in the evening of 16.12.2012 and had accompanied accused Vinay Sharma to the musical event at DDA District Park where he took more liquor and fell unconscious and was later brought to his house by his father and uncle.	None
He stated that he went out in the evening of 16.12.2012 and saw a quarrel between accused Vinay Sharma and accused Ram Singh (since deceased).	None
Then he returned to his jhuggi.	None
After sometime, he came out of his jhuggi and saw accused Vinay Sharma, his sister, mother and others going to a musical party and so, he also went with them and took more liquor in the party and even lost his mobile phone.	None
Strangely enough, in his supplementary statement recorded on 16.08.2013 under Section 313 CrPC, he stated that he was present in the said party with his family members and friends and that a video clip was prepared by one Ram Babu, DW13, and that he does not remember if he had accompanied accused Vinay Sharma to the said park on that evening.	None
It is in contradiction to the stand taken by him in his earlier statement recorded under Section 313 CrPC.	None
Accused Pawan examined his father, DW2, Shri Hira Lal Ram, who deposed that on 16.12.2012 about 715 p.m., when he came to his house, he was informed by his daughter that accused Pawan had gone to DDA District Park, Hauz Khas.	None
It is in contradiction to the deposition made by the other defence witnesses who have said that accused Vinay Sharma and his family members had left Ravi Dass Camp, Sector3, R.K. Puram, New Delhi, about 800/830 p.m. and that accused Pawan had accompanied them.	None
Accused Pawan also said so in his initial statement under Section 313 CrPC.	None
DW4, Shri Gyan Chand, the maternal uncle of accused Pawan, deposed that he brought accused Pawan Gupta Kaalu to the jhuggi from the DDA District Park and saw one Ram Charan warming his hands on a bonfire just outside his jhuggi who came and asked him about the wellbeing of accused Pawan.	None
Ram Charan, DW3, however, deposed that about 830/900 p.m., he was sitting inside his jhuggi with its door open	None
and he saw accused Pawan being brought by his uncle in drunken state.	None
This is yet again in contradiction to what has been deposed by the other defence witnesses who said that accused Pawan Gupta and accused Vinay Sharma had rather left Ravi Dass Camp, Sector3, R.K. Puram, New Delhi about 800/830 p.m. for the DDA District Park.	None
DW16, a shopkeeper of the locality, had deposed that he had seen the vehicle of Shri Gyan Chand about 900/930 p.m. on 16.12.2012 when accused Pawan Gupta was brought in drunken condition and was taken to his jhuggi.	None
Initially, he failed to mention if Shri Hira Ram was accompanying Shri Gyan Chand.	None
Though the witnesses have also deposed about the taking away of accused Pawan by 3/4 persons on 17.12.2012, yet that plea too is in contradiction to the arrest memo Ex.PW60/A wherein the accused is stated to have been arrested on 18.12.2012 about 115 p.m. at the instance of accused Ram Singh (since deceased).	None
Hence, there exist contradictions in the statements of the defence witnesses produced on behalf of accused Pawan Gupta (a) qua the timing when the accused had left his jhuggi at Ravi Dass Camp on the fateful night of 16.12.2012 inasmuch as some of the witnesses deposed that accused Pawan left for DDA District Park at 800/830 p.m. and some others deposed that they saw him being brought to his jhuggi about 830/900 p.m. (b) qua the fact if DW2 had gone with DW1 to the park to fetch his son and (c) qua the fact if accused Pawan went to the park with accused Vinay Sharma or not.	None
Accused Akshay Kumar Singh Thakur, in his statement under Section 313 CrPC, stated that he was not in Delhi on the fateful night and that on 15.12.2012, he had left Delhi for his village in Mahabodhi Express on the ticket of his brother, Abhay, along with his brothers wife and nephew.	None
He produced certain witnesses in his defence.	None
DW11, Shri Chavinder, an auto driver from his village, deposed that he had brought accused Akshay Kumar Singh Thakur and his family members from Anugrah Narayan Railway Station, District Aurangabad, Bihar to his native village Karmalahang, P.S. Tandwa, in his own auto on 16.12.2012 at 1000 a.m.	None
It is interesting to note that he does not remember about any other passenger native who shared his auto on that day.	None
DW13, Sh.	None
Raj Mohan Singh, the fatherinlaw of the accused, deposed that when he reached accused Akshays house, he found his soninlaw being implicated in a rape case allegedly committed on 16.12.2012.	None
It probably shows that DW13 had gone to meet Akshay Kumar Singh Thakur only when he had come to know about his implication in the rape case and when accused Akshay Kumar Singh Thakur was on the run.	None
It is an admitted fact that the Chowkidar of P.S. Tandwa had met fatherinlaw of the accused on 20.12.2012 and had informed him about the implication of accused Akshay for the first time.	None
If it was so, then DW13, Shri Raj Mohan, must have visited the house of accused Akshay Kumar Singh Thakur either on 20.12.2012 or on 21.12.2012.	None
DW12, DW14 and DW15 are all relatives of accused Akshay Kumar Singh Thakur and, as observed by both the courts, they tried to wriggle him out of the messy situation, as is the natural instinct of the family members.	None
However, it is to be seen that during the evidence of DW14, wife of accused Akshay Kumar Singh Thakur, she was interrupted from answering by accused Akshay from behind on more than one occasion.	None
Similarly, DW15, the sisterinlaw of the accused, who had allegedly accompanied the accused to her native village, mysteriously, was not aware as to why her husband Abhay who was to accompany her on 15.12.2012 to the native village did not accompany her.	None
She was not aware of the reason which made her husband stay behind in Delhi.	None
Being the wife, she was expected to know this, at least.	None
While weighing the plea of alibi, the same has to be weighed against the positive evidence led by the prosecution, i.e., not only the substantive evidence of PW1 and the dying declarations, Ex.	None
PW27/A and Ex.	None
PW30/D1, but also against the scientific evidence, viz., the DNA analysis, finger print analysis and bite marks analysis, the accuracy of which is scientifically acclaimed.	None
Considering the inconsistent and contradictory nature of the evidence of alibi led by the accused against the positive evidence of the prosecution, including the scientific one, we hold that the accused have miserably failed to discharge their burden of absolute certainty qua their plea of alibi.	None
The plea taken by them appears to be an afterthought and rather may be read as an additional circumstance against them.	None
In response to the questions put to him in his statement under Section 313 CrPC, accused Vinay had admitted that mobile No. 8285947545, Ex.DW10/1, belongs to his mother and its SIM was lost prior to 16.12.2012 and that on 16.12.2012, at 930 p.m., his friend Vipin had taken his phone to the DDA District Park and had returned it the next morning without SIM card and memory card.	None
In response to question No. 221, he stated that about 800/830 p.m., he went to see accused Ram Singh and he had a scuffle exchange of fist blow and then he returned to his jhuggi.	None
Thereafter, he left for musical party with his sister, mother and others.	None
He did not say if his father had accompanied them.	None
He also told that about 1130 p.m., he had returned to his jhuggi.	None
It is worthy to note that the prosecution had proved the Call Detail Record, Ex.PW22/B, of the phone of accused Vinay Sharma, having SIM No. 8285947545, admittedly in the name of his mother, Smt.	None
Champa Devi, but in the possession of accused Vinay Sharma in the evening of 16.12.2012 and allegedly snatched by one Vipin in the said music party and returned to him in the morning of 17.12.2012 without SIM card and memory card.	None
The Call Detail Record Ex.PW22/B does show that the accused had been making calls to one particular number, viz., 8601274533 from 15.12.2012 till 201937 of 17.12.2012.	None
The authenticity of the CDR is proved under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act.	None
If the accused was not having a SIM card in his phone No. 8285947545, then how could he have called from this SIM on 15.12.2012, then on 16.12.2012 and in the morning of 17.12.2012 till about 82342 p.m.	None
The accused rather said that his SIM and memory card were not in his phone when it was returned by his friend Vipin and that the phone was not with him at 95521 when it registered a call for 58 seconds and when his location was found near IGI Airport, i.e., the road covered by the Route Map, Ex.PW80/H, where the bus, Ex.P1, was moving on that night.	None
Further, if as per accused Vinay Sharma he had no memory card and SIM card in his mobile phone, then the question of making of a video clip from his mobile phone by his friend DW10, Shri Ram Babu, does not arise.	None
Even his personal search memo Ex.PW60/D does not show that the said mobile phone, when seized, had any memory card in it.	None
The intention of the accused appears to be to wriggle himself out of explaining the receipt of call on his mobile at 955 p.m. on 16.12.2012.	None
After referring to the decision in Ram Singh and others v. Col. Ram Singh, 1985 (Supp.)	None
SCC 611 the trial Court has held that accused Vinay had miserably failed to prove the authenticity of the video clip in terms of the above judgment.	None
The accused had failed to show if DW10, Ram Babu, aged 15 years, was ever competent to record the clip and how such device was preserved.	None
Admittedly by him, the memory card was not in the phone when returned to him by his friend, Vipin.	None
It is also not shown in the seizure memo Ex.PW60/D that the mobile, Ex.DW10/1, was seized along with memory card.	None
Thus, it raises a doubt as to how and by whom this memory card was later inserted in his phone, Ex.DW10/1, and how and when the video clip was taken and whether there was any tampering, etc. and thus, the compliance of Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act was mandatory in these circumstances to ensure the purity of the evidence and in its absence, it would be difficult to rely upon such evidence.	None
Even otherwise, in the alternative, the properties of mobile Ex.DW10/1 show the timing of the video clip as 816 p.m. of 16.12.2012 which is patently false because as per the defence witnesses, accused Vinay Sharma with his family had left Ravi Dass Camp at 800/830 p.m. and as per Smt.	None
Champa Devi, DW5, it takes about one hour on foot to reach the DDA District Park and, thus, even if we believe their theory, then also accused Vinay Sharma and accused Pawan Gupta Kaalu were not in the park at 816 p.m. on 16.12.2012.	None
Vinay Sharmas mother, Smt.	None
Champa Devi, DW5, deposed that her son, accused Vinay Sharma, had gone to meet accused Ram Singh (since deceased), about 800 p.m. on 16.12.2012	None
and he had a quarrel with Ram Singh, he was beaten and then the accused returned to his jhuggi.	None
Thereafter, accused Vinay Sharma accompanied her to DDA District Park, Hauz Khas, Opposite IIT Gate, New Delhi to watch a musical programme and stayed in the park till late in the night.	None
His mother does not speak if her husband had also accompanied her to the said DDA District Park but DW6 deposed that his son had returned about 800 p.m. after the quarrel and then they had gone to the said DDA District Park.	None
DW7, Shri Kishore Kumar Bhat, also deposed that about 800/830 p.m., he was in his jhuggi when the father of accused Vinay Sharma with his children came to his jhuggi and they all went to DDA District Park.	None
He has also stated that a musical programme was organized by St. Thomas Church, Sector2, R.K. Puram, New Delhi, in the said DDA District Park, Hauz Khas, on that night.	None
DW9, Shri Manu Sharma, deposed that he went with accused Vinay Sharma to reason with accused Ram Singh (since deceased) but accused Vinay Sharma had stated that his brother had accompanied him to meet accused Ram Singh (since deceased).	None
Further, DW9, Manu Sharma, stated that he had accompanied accused Vinay Sharma to the musical event but accused Vinay Sharma did not say so.	None
Hence, as per the statement of accused Vinay Sharma (under Section 313 CrPC) and as per the statements of the defence witnesses, accused Vinay Sharma and his family with accused Pawan Gupta Kaalu had left Ravi Dass Camp about 815 p.m. to 830 p.m. and as per DW5, Smt.	None
Champa Devi, it takes about an hour to reach the DDA District Park, Hauz Khas, on foot, so even according to them, they allegedly reached the park about 915 p.m. or 930 p.m.	None
Thus, from this angle too, the video clip showing the accused in the park on 16.12.2012 about 816 p.m. appears to have been tampered.	None
PW83, Shri Angad Singh, the Deputy Director (Horticulture), DDA, had deposed that no such permission was ever granted by any authority to organize any such function in the evening of 16.12.2012 in the said DDA District Park, Hauz Khas, New Delhi and that no function was ever organized in the park on 16.12.2012 by anyone.	None
PW84, Father George Manimala of St. Thomas Church, as also PW85, Brother R.P. Samual, Secretary, Ebenezer Assembly Church, deposed that their Church(es) never organized any musical programme event in the DDA District Park, Hauz Khas, in the evening of Sunday, i.e., on 16.12.2012.	None
Rather, they deposed that on Sundays, there is always a mass prayer in the church and there is no question of organizing any programme outside the Church premises and that even otherwise, they have their own space lawn within the Church premises where they can hold such type of programmes functions.	None
Though Shri Singh, learned counsel for the respective appellants, tried to press upon a document, Ex.PW84/B, a programme pamphlet of St. Thomas Church wherein it was mentioned that the Church was holding programmes of Carol Singing from 10.12.2012 to 23.12.2012 at 700 p.m. at public places, yet in view of the categorical denial by PW84 and PW85 that any such programme was organized by the Church on 16.12.2012 in the DDA District Park, opposite IIT Gate, Hauz Khas, New Delhi, the plea has no substance.266.	None
It is settled in law that while raising a plea of alibi, the burden squarely lies upon the accused person to establish the plea convincingly by adducing cogent evidence.	None
The plea of alibi that accused Vinay Sharma and accused Pawan Gupta Kaalu had attended the alleged musical programme in the evening of 16.12.2012 in the DDA District Park, Hauz Khas, opposite IIT Gate, New Delhi, has been rightly rejected by the trial court which has been given the stamp of approval by the High Court.	None
Criminal conspiracy	None
The next aspect that we intend to address pertains to criminal conspiracy.	None
The accused persons before us were chargesheeted for the offence of criminal conspiracy within the meaning of Section 120A IPC apart from other offences.	None
The trial court found all the accused guilty of the offence under Section 120B IPC and awarded life imprisonment alongwith a fine of Rs. 5,000/ to each of the convicts.	None
The High Court has also affirmed their conviction under Section 120B after recording concurrent findings.	None
Before analysing the present facts with reference to Section 120A IPC in order to find out whether the charge of criminal conspiracy is proved in respect of each of the accused, it is pertinent to note the actual nature and purport of Section 120A IPC and allied provisions.	None
Section 120A IPC as contained in Chapter VA defines the offence of criminal conspiracy.	None
The provision was inserted in the IPC by virtue of Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 1913.	None
Section 120A IPC reads as under 120A. Definition of criminal conspiracy When two or more persons agree to do, or cause to be done, (1) an illegal act, or (2) an act which is not illegal by illegal means, such an agreement is designated a criminal conspiracy Provided that no agreement except an agreement to commit an offence shall amount to a criminal conspiracy unless some act besides the agreement is done by one or more parties to such agreement in pursuance thereof.	None
Explanation It is immaterial whether the illegal act is the ultimate object of such agreement, or is merely incidental to that object.	None
Section 120B being pertinent is reproduced below 120B. Punishment of criminal conspiracy (1) Whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable with death, imprisonment for life or rigorous imprisonment for a term of two years or upwards, shall, where no express provision is made in this Code for the punishment of such a conspiracy, be punished in the same manner as if he had abetted such offence.(2) Whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy other than a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable as aforesaid shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding six months, or with fine or with both.	None
The underlying purpose for the insertion of Sections 120A and 120B IPC was to make a mere agreement to do an illegal act or an act which is not illegal by illegal means punishable under law.	None
The criminal thoughts in the mind when take concrete shape of an agreement to do or cause to be done an illegal act or an act which is not illegal by illegal means than even if nothing further is done an agreement is designated as a criminal conspiracy.	None
The proviso to Section 120A engrafts a limitation that no agreement except an agreement to commit an offence shall amount to a criminal conspiracy unless some act besides the agreement is done by one or more parties to such agreement in pursuance thereof.	None
By insertion of Chapter VA in IPC, the understanding of criminal conspiracy in the Indian context has become akin to that in England.	None
The illegal act may or may not be done in pursuance of an agreement but the mere formation of an agreement is an offence and is punishable.	None
The law relating to conspiracy in England has been put forth in Halsburys Laws of England (vide 5th Ed.	None
Vol.25, page 73) as under Matters common to all conspiracies.	None
There are statutory common law offences of conspiracy.	None
The essence of the offences of both statutory and common law conspiracy is the fact of combination by agreement.	None
The agreement may be express or implied, or in part express and in part implied.	None
The conspiracy arises and the offence is committed as soon as the agreement is made and the offence continues to be committed so long as the combination persists, that is until the conspiratorial agreement is terminated by completion of its performance or by abandonment or frustration or however it may be.	None
The actus reus in a conspiracy is therefore the agreement for the execution of the unlawful conduct, not the execution of it.	None
It is not enough that two or more persons pursued the same unlawful object at the same time or in the same place it is necessary to show a meeting of minds, a consensus to effect an unlawful purpose.	None
It is not, however, necessary that each conspirator should have been in communication with every other.	None
The English law on conspiracy has been succinctly explained by Russell on Crimes (12th Ed.	None
Vol. 1 page 202) in the following passage The gist of the offence of conspiracy then lies, not in doing the act, or effecting the purpose for which the conspiracy is formed, nor in attempting to do them, nor in inciting others to do them, but in the forming of the scheme or agreement between the parties.	None
Agreement is essential.	None
Mere knowledge, or even discussion, of the plan is not, per se enough.	None
Coleridge J. in R. v. Murphy, (1837)	None
173 ER 508 explained conspiracy in the following words I am bound to tell you, that although the common design is the root of the charge, it is not necessary to prove that these two parties came together and actually agreed in terms to have this common design, and to pursue it by common means, and so to carry it into execution.	None
This is not necessary, because in any cases of the most clearly established conspiracies there are no means of proving any such thing and neither law nor common sense requires that it should be proved.	None
If you find that these two persons pursued by their acts the same object, often by the same means, one performing one part of an act, and the other another part of the same act, so as to complete it, with a view to the attainment of the object which they were pursuing, you will be at liberty to draw the conclusion that they have been engaged in a conspiracy to effect that object.	None
The question you have to ask yourselves is, had they this common design, and did they pursue it by these common means the design being unlawful?	None
Lord Brampton of the House of Lords in Quinn v. Leatham, (1901)	None
AC 495 had aptly defined conspiracy which definition was engrafted in Sections 120A and 120B IPC.	None
Following was stated by the House of Lords A conspiracy consists not merely in the intention of two or more, but in the agreement of two or more, to do an unlawful act, or to do a lawful act by unlawful means.	None
So long as such a design rests in intention only, it is not indictable.	None
When two agree to carry it into effect, the very plot is an act in itself, and the act of each of the parties, promise against promise, actus contra actum, capable of being enforced, if lawful and punishable if for a criminal object, or for the use of criminal means.	None
A perusal of the above shows that in order to constitute an offence of criminal conspiracy, two or more persons must agree to do an illegal act or an act which if not illegal by illegal means.	None
This Court on several occasions has explained and elaborated the element of conspiracy as contained in our penal law.	None
In Noor Mohammad Mohd.	None
Yusuf Momin v. State of Maharashtra, AIR 1971 SC 885 this Court has observed Criminal conspiracy postulates an agreement between two or more persons to do, or cause to be done an illegal act or an act which is not illegal, by illegal means.	None
It differs from other offences in that mere agreement is made an offence even if no step is taken to carry out that agreement.	None
Though there is close association of conspiracy with incitement and abetment the substantive offence of criminal conspiracy is somewhat wider in amplitude than abetment by conspiracy as contemplated by Section 107, I.P.C. A conspiracy from its very nature is generally hatched in secret.	None
It is, therefore, extremely rare that direct evidence in proof of conspiracy can be forthcoming from wholly disinterested, quarters or from utter strangers.	None
But, like other offences, criminal conspiracy can be proved by circumstantial evidence.	None
In E.G. Barsay v. State of Bombay, AIR 1961 SC 1762 the following was stated The gist of the offence is an agreement to break the law.	None
The parties to such an agreement will be guilty of criminal conspiracy, though the illegal act agreed to be done has not been done.	None
So too, it is not an ingredient of the offence that all the parties should agree to do a single illegal act.	None
It may comprise the commission of a number of acts.	None
Under Section 43 of the Indian Penal Code, an act would be illegal if it is an offence or if it is prohibited by law.	None
Under the first charge the accused are charged with having conspired to do three categories of illegal acts, and the mere fact that all of them could not be convicted separately in respect of each of the offences has no relevancy in considering the question whether the offence of conspiracy has been committed.	None
They are all guilty of the offence of conspiracy to do illegal acts, though for individual offences all of them may not be liable.	None
A threeJudge Bench in Yash Pal Mittal v. State of Punjab, (1977) 4 SCC 540 had noted the ingredients of the offence of criminal conspiracy and held The main object of the criminal conspiracy in the first charge is undoubtedly cheating by personation.	None
The other means adopted, inter alia, are preparation or causing to be prepared spurious passports forging or causing to be forged entries and endorsements in that connection and use of or causing to be used forged passports as genuine in order to facilitate travel of persons abroad.	None
The final object of the conspiracy in the first charge being the offence of cheating by personation, as we find, the other offences described therein are steps, albeit, offences themselves, in aid of the ultimate crime.	None
The charge does not connote plurality of objects of the conspiracy.	None
That the appellant himself is not charged with the ultimate offence, which is the object of the criminal conspiracy, is beside the point in a charge under Section 120B IPC as long as he is a party to the conspiracy with the end in view.	None
Whether the charges will be ultimately established against the accused is a completely different matter within the domain of the trial court.11.	None
The principal object of the criminal conspiracy in the first charge is thus cheating by personation, and without achieving that goal other acts would be of no material use in which any person could be necessarily interested.	None
That the appellant himself does not personate another person is beside the point when he is alleged to be a collaborator of the conspiracy with that object.	None
We have seen that some persons have been individually and specifically charged with cheating by personation under Section 419 IPC.	None
They were also charged along with the appellant under Section 120B IPC.	None
The object of criminal conspiracy is absolutely clear and there is no substance in the argument that the object is merely to cheat simpliciter under Section 417, IPC.	None
Certainly, entering into an agreement by two or more persons to do an illegal act or legal act by illegal means is essential to the offence of criminal conspiracy as has been rightly emphasized by this Court in Kehar Singh and Ors.	None
v. State (Delhi Administration), (1988) 3 SCC 609.	None
In the said case, the court further stressed upon the relevance of circumstantial evidence in proving conspiracy as direct evidence in such cases is almost impossible to adduce.	None
In the said case, K. Jagannatha Shetty, J., in his concurring opinion, has also elaborated the concept of conspiracy to the following effect It will be thus seen that the most important ingredient of the offence of conspiracy is the agreement between two or more persons to do an illegal act.	None
The illegal act may or may not be done in pursuance of agreement, but the very agreement is an offence and is punishable.	None
Reference to Sections 120A and 120B IPC would make these aspects clear beyond doubt.	None
Entering into an agreement by two or more persons to do an illegal act or legal act by illegal means is the very quintessence of the offence of conspiracy.	None
Generally, a conspiracy is hatched in secrecy and it may be difficult to adduce direct evidence of the same.	None
The prosecution will often rely on evidence of acts of various parties to infer that they were done in reference to their common intention.	None
The prosecution will also more often rely upon circumstantial evidence.	None
The conspiracy can be undoubtedly proved by such evidence direct or circumstantial.	None
But the court must enquire whether the two persons are independently pursuing the same end or they have come together in the pursuit of the unlawful object.	None
The former does not render them conspirators, but the latter does.	None
It is, however, essential that the offence of conspiracy requires some kind of physical manifestation of agreement.	None
The express agreement, however, need not be proved.	None
Nor actual meeting of two persons is necessary.	None
Nor it is necessary to prove the actual words of communication.	None
The evidence as to transmission of thoughts sharing the unlawful design may be sufficient.	None
Gerald Orchard of University of Canterbury, New Zealand explains the limited nature of this proposition Although it is not in doubt that the offence requires some physical manifestation of agreement, it is important to note the limited nature of this proposition.	None
The law does not require that the act of agreement take any particular form and the fact of agreement may be communicated by words or conduct.	None
Thus, it has been said that it is unnecessary to prove that the parties actually came together and agreed in terms to pursue the unlawful object there need never have been an express verbal agreement, it being sufficient that there was a tacit understanding between conspirators as to what should be done.	None
I share this opinion, but hasten to add that the relative acts or conduct of the parties must be conscientious and clear to mark their concurrence as to what should be done.	None
The concurrence cannot be inferred by a group of irrelevant facts artfully arranged so as to give an appearance of coherence.	None
The innocuous, innocent or inadvertent events and incidents should not enter the judicial verdict.	None
We must thus be strictly on our guard.	None
In Saju v. State of Kerala, (2001) 1 SCC 378 explaining the concept of conspiracy, this Court stated the following To prove the charge of criminal conspiracy the prosecution is required to establish that two or more persons had agreed to do or caused to be done, an illegal act or an act which is not legal, by illegal means.	None
It is immaterial whether the illegal act is the ultimate object of such crime or is merely incidental to that object.	None
To attract the applicability of Section 120B it has to be proved that all the accused had the intention and they had agreed to commit the crime.	None
There is no doubt that conspiracy is hatched in private and in secrecy for which direct evidence would rarely be available10.	None
It has thus to be established that the accused charged with criminal conspiracy had agreed to pursue a course of conduct which he knew was leading to the commission of a crime by one or more persons to the agreement, of that offence.	None
Besides the fact of agreement the necessary mens rea of the crime is also required to be established.	None
In Mir Nagvi Askari v. Central Bureau of Investigation, (2009) 15 SCC 643 this Court reiterated the various facets of criminal conspiracy and laid down as follows Criminal conspiracy, it must be noted in this regard, is an independent offence.	None
It is punishable separately.	None
A criminal conspiracy must be put to action for so long as a crime is generated in the mind of the accused, the same does not become punishable.	None
Thoughts even criminal in character, often involuntary, are not crimes but when they take a concrete shape of an agreement to do or caused to be done an illegal act or an act which is not illegal, by illegal means then even if nothing further is done, the agreement would give rise to a criminal conspiracy.61.	None
The ingredients of the offence of criminal conspiracy are(i) an agreement between two or more persons(ii) an agreement must relate to doing or causing to be done either (a) an illegal act (b) an act which is not illegal in itself but is done by illegal means.	None
Condition precedent for holding the accused persons to be guilty of a charge of criminal conspiracy must, therefore, be considered on the anvil of the fact which must be established by the prosecution viz.	None
meeting of minds of two or more persons for doing or causing to be done an illegal act or an act by illegal means.62.	None
The courts, however, while drawing an inference from the materials brought on record to arrive at a finding as to whether the charges of the criminal conspiracy have been proved or not, must always bear in mind that a conspiracy is hatched in secrecy and it is difficult, if not impossible, to obtain direct evidence to establish the same.	None
The manner and circumstances in which the offences have been committed and the accused persons took part are relevant.	None
For the said purpose, it is necessary to prove that the propounders had expressly agreed to it or caused it to be done, and it may also be proved by adduction of circumstantial evidence and or by necessary implication.	None
(See Mohd.	None
Usman Mohammad Hussain Maniyar v. State of Maharashtra, (1981) 2 SCC 443.)	None
In Pratapbhai Hamirbhai Solanki v. State of Gujrat and another, (2013) 1 SCC 613 this Court explained the ingredients of criminal conspiracy as under At this stage, it is useful to recapitulate the view this Court has expressed pertaining to criminal conspiracy.	None
In Damodar v. State of Rajasthan, (2004) 12 SCC 336 a twoJudge Bench after referring to the decision in Kehar Singh v. State (Delhi Admn.) and State of Maharashtra v. Som Nath Thapa, (1996) 4 SCC 659 has stated thus15.	None
The most important ingredient of the offence being the agreement between two or more persons to do an illegal act.	None
In a case where criminal conspiracy is alleged, the court must inquire whether the two persons are independently pursuing the same end or they have come together to pursue the unlawful object.	None
The former does not render them conspirators but the latter does.	None
For the offence of conspiracy some kind of physical manifestation of agreement is required to be established.	None
The express agreement need not be proved.	None
The evidence as to the transmission of thoughts sharing the unlawful act is not (sic) sufficient.	None
A conspiracy is a continuing offence which continues to subsist till it is executed or rescinded or frustrated by choice of necessity.	None
During its subsistence whenever any one of the conspirators does an act or a series of acts, he would be held guilty under Section 120B of the Penal Code, 1860.22.	None
In Ram Narayan Popli v. CBI, (2003) 3 SCC 641 while dealing with the conspiracy the majority opinion laid down that342.	None
The elements of a criminal conspiracy have been stated to be (a) an object to be accomplished, (b) a plan or scheme embodying means to accomplish that object, (c) an agreement or understanding between two or more of the accused persons whereby, they become definitely committed to cooperate for the accomplishment of the object by the means embodied in the agreement, or by any effectual means, and (d) in the jurisdiction where the statute required an overt act.	None
It has been further opined that342.	None
The essence of a criminal conspiracy is the unlawful combination and ordinarily the offence is complete when the combination is framed.	None
no overt act need be done in furtherance of the conspiracy, and that the object of the combination need not be accomplished, in order to constitute an indictable offence.	None
Law making conspiracy a crime is designed to curb immoderate power to do mischief which is gained by a combination of the means.	None
The encouragement and support which coconspirators give to one another rendering enterprises possible which, if left to individual effort, would have been impossible, furnish the ground for visiting conspirators and abettors with condign punishment.	None
The conspiracy is held to be continued and renewed as to all its members wherever and whenever any member of the conspiracy acts in furtherance of the common design.	None
The twoJudge Bench proceeded to state that342.	None
For an offence punishable under Section 120B, the prosecution need not necessarily prove that the perpetrators expressly agree to do or cause to be done illegal act the agreement may be proved by necessary implication.	None
Offence of criminal conspiracy has its foundation in an agreement to commit an offence.	None
A conspiracy consists not merely in the intention of two or more, but in the agreement of two or more to do an unlawful act by unlawful means.23.	None
In the said case it has been highlighted that in the case of conspiracy there cannot be any direct evidence.	None
The ingredients of offence are that there should be an agreement between persons who are alleged to conspire and the said agreement should be for doing an illegal act or for doing by illegal means an act which itself may not be illegal.	None
Therefore, the essence of criminal conspiracy is an agreement to do an illegal act and such an agreement can be proved either by direct evidence or by circumstantial evidence or by both, and it is a matter of common experience that direct evidence to prove conspiracy is rarely available.	None
Therefore, the circumstances proved before, during and after the occurrence have to be considered to decide about the complicity of the accused.	None
As already stated, in a criminal conspiracy, meeting of minds of two or more persons for doing an illegal act is the sine qua non but proving this by direct proof is not possible.	None
Hence, conspiracy and its objective can be inferred from the surrounding circumstances and the conduct of the accused.	None
Moreover, it is also relevant to note that conspiracy being a continuing offence continues to subsist till it is executed or rescinded or frustrated by the choice of necessity.	None
In K. R. Purushothaman v. State of Kerala, (2005) 12 SCC 631 the Court has made the following observations with regard to the formation and rescission of an agreement constituting criminal conspiracy To constitute a conspiracy, meeting of minds of two or more persons for doing an illegal act or an act by illegal means is the first and primary condition and it is not necessary that all the conspirators must know each and every detail of the conspiracy.	None
Neither is it necessary that every one of the conspirators takes active part in the commission of each and every conspiratorial acts.	None
The agreement amongst the conspirators can be inferred by necessary implication.	None
In most of the cases, the conspiracies are proved by the circumstantial evidence, as the conspiracy is seldom an open affair.	None
The existence of conspiracy and its objects are usually deduced from the circumstances of the case and the conduct of the accused involved in the conspiracy.	None
While appreciating the evidence of the conspiracy, it is incumbent on the court to keep in mind the wellknown rule governing circumstantial evidence viz.	None
each and every incriminating circumstance must be clearly established by reliable evidence and the circumstances proved must form a chain of events from which the only irresistible conclusion about the guilt of the accused can be safely drawn, and no other hypothesis against the guilt is possible.	None
Criminal conspiracy is an independent offence in the Penal Code.	None
The unlawful agreement is sine qua non for constituting offence under the Penal Code and not an accomplishment.	None
Conspiracy consists of the scheme or adjustment between two or more persons which may be express or implied or partly express and partly implied.	None
Mere knowledge, even discussion, of the plan would not per se constitute conspiracy.	None
The offence of conspiracy shall continue till the termination of agreement.	None
After referring to a catena of judicial pronouncements and authorities, a threeJudge Bench of this Court in State through Superintendent of Police, CBI SIT v. Nalini and others, (1999) 5 SCC 253 summarised the principles relating to criminal conspiracy as under Some of the broad principles governing the law of conspiracy may be summarized though, as the name implies, a summary cannot be exhaustive of the principles.1.	None
Under Section 120A IPC offence of criminal conspiracy is committed when two or more persons agree to do or cause to be done an illegal act or legal act by illegal means.	None
When it is legal act by illegal means overt act is necessary.	None
Offence of criminal conspiracy is exception to the general law where intent alone does not constitute crime.	None
It is intention to commit crime and joining hands with persons having the same intention.	None
Not only the intention but there has to be agreement to carry out the object of the intention, which is an offence.	None
The question for consideration in a case is did all the accused had the intention and did they agree that the crime be committed.	None
It would not be enough for the offence of conspiracy when some of the accused merely entertained a wish, howsoever, horrendous it may be, that offence be committed.2.	None
Acts subsequent to the achieving of object of conspiracy may tend to prove that a particular accused was party to the conspiracy.	None
Once the object of conspiracy has been achieved, any subsequent act, which may be unlawful, would not make the accused a part of the conspiracy like giving shelter to an absconder.3.	None
Conspiracy is hatched in private or in secrecy.	None
It is rarely possible to establish a conspiracy by direct evidence.	None
Usually, both the existence of the conspiracy and its objects have to be inferred from the circumstances and the conduct of the accused.4.	None
Conspirators may, for example, be enrolled in a chain  A enrolling B, B enrolling C, and so on and all will be members of a single conspiracy if they so intend and agree, even though each member knows only the person who enrolled him and the person whom he enrolls.	None
There may be a kind of umbrellaspoke enrollment, where a single person at the center doing the enrolling and all the other members being unknown to each other, though they know that there are to be other members.	None
These are theories and in practice it may be difficult to tell whether the conspiracy in a particular case falls into which category.	None
It may, however, even overlap.	None
But then there has to be present mutual interest.	None
Persons may be members of single conspiracy even though each is ignorant of the identity of many others who may have diverse role to play.	None
It is not a part of the crime of conspiracy that all the conspirators need to agree to play the same or an active role.5.	None
When two or more persons agree to commit a crime of conspiracy, then regardless of making or considering any plans for its commission, and despite the fact that no step is taken by any such person to carry out their common purpose, a crime is committed by each and every one who joins in the agreement.	None
There has thus to be two conspirators and there may be more than that.	None
To prove the charge of conspiracy it is not necessary that intended crime was committed or not.	None
If committed it may further help prosecution to prove the charge of conspiracy.6.	None
It is not necessary that all conspirators should agree to the common purpose at the same time.	None
They may join with other conspirators at any time before the consummation of the intended objective, and all are equally responsible.	None
What part each conspirator is to play may not be known to everyone or the fact as to when a conspirator joined the conspiracy and when he left.7.	None
A charge of conspiracy may prejudice the accused because it is forced them into a joint trial and the court may consider the entire mass of evidence against every accused.	None
Prosecution has to produce evidence not only to show that each of the accused has knowledge of object of conspiracy but also of the agreement.	None
In the charge of conspiracy court has to guard itself against the danger of unfairness to the accused.	None
Introduction of evidence against some may result in the conviction of all, which is to be avoided.	None
By means of evidence in conspiracy, which is otherwise inadmissible in the trial of any other substantive offence prosecution tries to implicate the accused not only in the conspiracy itself but also in the substantive crime of the alleged conspirators.	None
There is always difficulty in tracing the precise contribution of each member of the conspiracy but then there has to be cogent and convincing evidence against each one of the accused charged with the offence of conspiracy.	None
As observed by Judge Learned Hand that this distinction is important today when many prosecutors seek to sweep within the dragnet of conspiracy all those who have been associated in any degree whatever with the main offenders.8.	None
As stated above it is the unlawful agreement and not its accomplishment, which is the gist or essence of the crime of conspiracy.	None
Offence of criminal conspiracy is complete even though there is no agreement as to the means by which the purpose is to be accomplished.	None
It is the unlawful agreement, which is the graham of the crime of conspiracy.	None
The unlawful agreement which amounts to a conspiracy need not be formal or express, but may be inherent in and inferred from the circumstances, especially declarations, acts, and conduct of the conspirators.	None
The agreement need not be entered into by all the parties to it at the same time, but may be reached by successive actions evidencing their joining of the conspiracy.9.	None
It has been said that a criminal conspiracy is a partnership in crime, and that there is in each conspiracy a joint or mutual agency for the prosecution of a common plan.	None
Thus, if two or more persons enter into a conspiracy, any act done by any of them pursuant to the agreement is in contemplation of law, the act of each of them and they are jointly responsible therefore.	None
This means that everything said, written or done by any of the conspirators in execution or furtherance of the common purpose is deemed to have been said, done, or written by each of them.	None
And this joint responsibility extends not only to what is done by any of the conspirators pursuant to the original agreement but also to collateral acts incident to and growing out of the original purpose.	None
A conspirator is not responsible, however, for acts done by a coconspirator after termination of the conspiracy.	None
The joinder of a conspiracy by a new member does not create a new conspiracy nor does it change the status of the other conspirators, and the mere fact that conspirators individually or in groups perform different tasks to a common end does not split up a conspiracy into several different conspiracies.10.	None
A man may join a conspiracy by word or by deed.	None
However, criminal responsibility for a conspiracy requires more than a merely passive attitude towards an existing conspiracy.	None
One who commits an overt act with knowledge of the conspiracy is guilty.	None
And one who tacitly consents to the object of a conspiracy and goes along with other conspirators, actually standing by while the others put the conspiracy into effect, is guilty though he intends to take no active part in the crime.	None
The rationale of conspiracy is that the required objective manifestation of disposition of criminality is provided by the act of agreement.	None
Conspiracy is a clandestine activity.	None
Persons generally do not form illegal covenants openly.	None
In the interest of security, a person may carry out his part of a conspiracy without even being informed of the identity of his coconspirators.	None
An agreement of this kind can rarely be shown by direct proof it must be inferred from the circumstantial evidence of cooperation between the accused.	None
What people do is, of course, evidence of what lies in their minds.	None
To convict a person of conspiracy, the prosecution must show that he agreed with others that they would together accomplish the unlawful object of the conspiracy.	None
See Firozuddin Basheeruddin and others v. State of Kerala, (2001) 7 SCC 596 In Suresh Chandra Bahri v. State of Bihar, 1995 Supp (1) SCC 80 this Court reiterated that the essential ingredient of criminal conspiracy is the agreement to commit an offence.	None
After referring to the judgments in Noor Mohd.	None
Mohd.	None
Yusuf Momi (supra) and V.C. Shukla v. State (Delhi Admn.), (1980) 2 SCC 665 it was held in S.C. Bahri (supra) as under A cursory look to the provisions contained in Section 120A reveals that a criminal conspiracy envisages an agreement between two or more persons to commit an illegal act or an act which by itself may not be illegal but the same is done or executed by illegal means.	None
Thus the essential ingredient of the offence of criminal conspiracy is the agreement to commit an offence.	None
In a case where the agreement is for accomplishment of an act which by itself constitutes an offence, then in that event no overt act is necessary to be proved by the prosecution because in such a factsituation criminal conspiracy is established by proving such an agreement.	None
In other words, where the conspiracy alleged is with regard to commission of a serious crime of the nature as contemplated in Section 120B read with the proviso to subsection (2) of Section 120A IPC, then in that event mere proof of an agreement between the accused for commission of such a crime alone is enough to bring about a conviction under Section 120B and the proof of any overt act by the accused or by any one of them would not be necessary.	None
The provisions in such a situation do not require that each and every person who is a party to the conspiracy must do some overt act towards the fulfilment of the object of conspiracy, the essential ingredient being an agreement between the conspirators to commit the crime and if these requirements and ingredients are established the act would fall within the trapping of the provisions contained in Section 120B since from its very nature a conspiracy must be conceived and hatched in complete secrecy, because otherwise the whole purpose may be frustrated and it is common experience and goes without saying that only in very rare cases one may come across direct evidence of a criminal conspiracy to commit any crime and in most of the cases it is only the circumstantial evidence which is available from which an inference giving rise to the conclusion of an agreement between two or more persons to commit an offence may be legitimately drawn.	None
From the law discussed above, it becomes clear that the prosecution must adduce evidence to prove that the accused agreed to do or caused to be done an act such an act was illegal or was to be done by illegal means within the meaning of IPC irrespective of whether some overt act was done by one of the accused in pursuance of the agreement.	None
In the case at hand, the prosecution has examined PW82 to prove the charges of conspiracy and for further identification of all the accused persons in the bus on the date of the incident.	None
He has also been presented to support the prosecution case that immediately preceding the fateful incident, all the accused persons had, in execution of their conspiracy, been robbing merrymaking with passengers on the road.	None
The defence has controverted the testimony of PW82 on several aspects which has already been discussed before.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has been alleged that Ram Adhar, PW82, is a planted witness who was brought in by the investigators to fill the lacunae, if any, in their investigation and to further make a strong case against the accused persons.	Arguments of Petitioner
The defence has further denied the presence of accused Mukesh at the scene of the crime.	Arguments of Petitioner
Accused Vinay and accused Akshay have also raised the plea of alibi which has been dealt with separately by us.	Arguments of Petitioner
Regardless of the fact that we have found the testimony of PW82 to be creditworthy, even if the same is not taken into account for the purpose of establishing that the accused acted in concert with each other to commit heinous offences against the victim, the testimony of PW1 coupled with the dying declarations of the prosecutrix irrefragably establish the charge under Section 120B against all the accused persons.290.	None
First of all, in order to prove the presence of all the accused on board the bus where the entire incident took place, the prosecution has relied upon the testimony of PW1, PW82, PW16 and, most importantly, the dying declarations of the prosecutrix.	None
As per the records, PW82 has testified to the effect that on the date of the incident, about 830 p.m., he had boarded the concerned bus from Munirka Bus Stand, New Delhi, on noticing that the conductor of the bus sought commuters for Khanpur.	None
However, he was later informed that he would be dropped at Nehru Place instead of Khanpur.	None
When PW82 tried to get down the bus, he was wrongfully confined, attacked by the persons inside the bus who robbed him of his belongings, viz., Rs. 1500/ in cash and a mobile phone, and he was then thrown out of the moving bus.	None
During the trial, PW82 has identified all the four accused persons, viz., Akshay Kumar Singh Thakur, Pawan Gupta, Vinay Sharma and accused Mukesh, present in the concerned bus at the time of the incident.	None
PW82 had lodged the complaint on 18.12.2012 on the basis of which FIR No. 414 of 2012 was registered at P.S. Vasant Vihar, New Delhi under Sections 365, 397, 342 IPC.	None
Learned senior counsel for the State, Mr. Luthra, has submitted that PW82 had been examined to establish the conduct of the accused on the aspect of conspiracy and also to establish the identity of the accused persons before the trial court.	None
It was further submitted that PW82, Ram Adhar, identified all the four accused in the court, namely, Akshay Kumar Singh Thakur, Pawan Gupta, Vinay Sharma and Mukesh besides two others present inside the bus and also identified Mukesh as driving the bus and stated that others took him inside the bus and robbed him and attacked him.	None
The contention of the appellants is that the testimony of PW82 is not bereft of doubt for several reasons, namely, a) delay in lodging FIR, b) nonexamination of Sanjiv Bhai as a witness, c) he has stated that he heard the person with the burnt hand say Mukesh, tez chalao, d) apart from that, he does not mention that he heard the names of any of the accused, and e) he had not visited a doctor hospital despite stating that he had injuries on his face which prevented him from registering an FIR.	Arguments of Petitioner
Regarding the alleged incident of attack on PW82 by the accused, it was submitted that the said case against the accused ended in conviction and the same is pending in appeal.	None
In respect of the credibility of the testimony of PW82 as to the commission of the offence, we are not inclined to take into account the evidence of PW82 except on one limited aspect, that is, the presence of the accused in the bus, Ex.P1, on the night of 16.12.2012 since PW82s presence in the bus on the night of 16.12.2012 is admitted.	None
In his statement under Section 313 CrPC, MukeshA2 admitted that PW82 had boarded the offending bus prior to the boarding of the bus by the informant and the victim.	None
The relevant portion of his statement is extracted as under Q.211	None
It is in evidence against you that PW82 Shri Ram Adhar deposed that on 16.12.2012 after finishing his carpenters work at a shop at Munirka till about 830 PM, he boarded a white colour bus from sabji Market across the road of my work place.	None
The helper of the bus was calling the passenger by saying khanpurkhanpur.	None
As PW82 boarded the bus, one of the occupants told him that the bus is going to Nehru Place.	None
As PW82 tried to get down, one person whose one limb was having burn injuries, gave beating to him.	None
The other person pulled him inside the bus towards the back side and they all gave beating to him and removed his belongings i.e. one mobile with two sims and Rs.	None
1500/.	None
The sim card numbers were 9999095739 and 9971612554.	None
What do you have to say?Ans It is correct that PW82 Shri Ram Adhar had boarded the bus Ex.	None
P1 on 16.12.2012 prior to the boarding of the bus Ex.	None
P1 by the complainant and the victim.	None
He boarded the bus from Sabji Mandi at Sector4 on the main road.	None
He went on the back side of the bus but after sometime he was made to deboard the bus at IIT flyover by accused Akshay as he had no money to pay the fare.	None
At that time accused Akshay, accused Ram Singh, since deceased, accused Vinay accused Pawan along with JCL were present in the bus and I was driving it.underlining added The presence of PW82 in Ex.P1 bus prior to the boarding of the bus by the informant, PW1, and the victim and the presence of all the accused in the bus is, thus, established by the prosecution.	None
The evidence of PW81, Dinesh Yadav, the owner of the offending bus, indicates accused Ram Singh, A1, (since deceased) as the driver of the bus and Akshay Kumar as the cleaner of the bus which is further shown in the attendance register of the bus exhibited as Ex.PW80/K. The evidence of PW81, Dinesh Yadav, is corroborated by the entries made in the attendance register where in the drivers page at Sl.	None
No. 5, the name of accused Ram Singh (since deceased) is written against bus No. 0149	None
and at Sl.No. 15, the name of Akshay is written as helper against bus No. 0149.	None
As stated earlier, the bus bearing Registration No.DL1PC0149 was one of the buses hired by Birla Vidya Niketan School, Pushp Vihar, New Delhi and the fact that the driver of the bus at the relevant time was Ram Singh is sought to be proved by the prosecution through the testimony of PW16, Rajeev Jakhmola, Manager (Administration) of the said school.	None
The said witness has testified that one Dinesh Yadav, PW81, had provided seven buses to the school including bus bearing No. DL1PC0149 for the purpose of ferrying the children of the school.	None
The driver of this bus was one Ram Singh, son of Mange Lal.	None
The documents relating to the bus including the photocopies of the agreement between the school and the bus contractor, copy of the driving licence of Ram Singh, A1, and the letter of termination dated 18.12.2012 with Yadav Travels were furnished to the Investigating Officer, SI Pratibha Sharma, vide his letter dated 25.12.2012, exhibited as Ex.PW16/A (colly.).	None
From the evidence of PW16, Rajeev Jakhmola, it stands proved that the bus in question was routinely driven by Ram Singh (since deceased).	None
The statement of PW16, Rajeev Jakhmola, is corroborated by the testimony of PW81, Dinesh Yadav.	None
Significantly, PW81, Dinesh Yadav, further testified This bus was being parked by accused Ram Singh near his house because this bus was attached with the school and also with an office as a chartered bus and that the accused used to pick up the students early in the morning.	None
The testimony of PW13, Brijesh Gupta, who was an auto driver and also resident of jhuggi at Ravi Dass Camp from where the offending bus was seized is also relevant to prove the presence of the accused in the bus.	None
He stated in his evidence that A1, Ram Singh (since deceased), is the brother of A2, Mukesh, and that both resided in the jhuggi at Ravi Dass camp and that Ram Singh used to drive the said bus and park it in the night near his jhuggi.	None
PW13, in his evidence, deposed that on the night of 16.12.2012, about 1130 p.m., when he returned to his jhuggi after plying his auto, he saw accused Mukesh, A2, taking water in some can inside a white colour bus and washing it from inside.	None
He also noticed some clothes and pieces of curtains being burnt in the fire.	None
In his questioning under Section 313 CrPC, Mukesh, A2, has admitted that he and A1, Ram Singh (since deceased), are brothers.	None
He has also admitted that on the night of 16.12.2012, he was driving the bus and that accused Pawan and Vinay Sharma were seated on the backside of the drivers seat, whereas Akshay and Ram Singh were sitting in the drivers cabin.	None
The relevant portion of his statement under Section 313 CrPC reads as under Q2.	None
It is in evidence against you that PW1 further deposed that they inquired from 45 auto rickshawwalas to take them to Dwarka, but they all refused.	None
At about 9 PM they reached at Munirka bus stand and found a white colour bus on which Yadav was written.	None
A boy in the bus was calling for commuters for Dwarka Palam Mod.	None
PW1 noticed yellow and green line strips on the bus and that the entry gate of the bus was ahead of its front tyre, as in luxury buses and that the front tyre was not having a wheel cover.	None
What do you have to say?Ans I was driving the bus while my brother Ram Singh, since deceased and JCL, Raju was calling for passengers by saying Palam Dwarka Mod.	None
Q4 It is in evidence against you that during the course of his deposition, complainant, PW1 has identified you accused Mukesh to be the person who was sitting on the drivers seat and was driving the bus PW1 further identified your coaccused Ram Singh (since deceased), and Akshay Kumar to be the person who were sitting in the drivers cabin alongwith the driver PW1 had also identified your coaccused Pawan Kumar who was sitting in front of him in two seats row of the bus PW1 had also identified your coaccused Vinay Sharma to be the person who was sitting in three seats row just behind the Drivers cabin, when PW1 entered the bus PW1 has also deposed before the court that the conductor who was calling him and his friend prosecutrix to board the bus Ex.	None
P1 was not among the accused person being tried in this court.	None
Ans Accused Pawan and accused Vinay Sharma were sitting on my back side of the drivers seat and whereas accused Akshay was sitting in the drivers cabin while my brother Ram Singh, since deceased was asking for passengers.	None
Q5	None
It is in evidence against you that after entering the bus PW1 noticed that seats cover of the bus were of red colour and it had yellow colour curtains and the windows of the bus had black film on it.	None
The windows were at quite a height as in luxury buses.	None
As PW1 sat down inside the bus, he noticed that two of you accused were sitting in the drivers cabin were coming and returning to the drivers cabin.	None
PW1 paid an amount of Rs. 20/ as bus fare to the conductor i.e. Rs. 10/ per head.	None
What do you have to say?Ans It is correct that the windows of the bus Ex.	None
P1 were having black film on it	None
but I cannot say if the seats of the bus were having red covers or that the curtains were of yellow colour as my brother Ram Singh, since deceased, only used to drive the bus daily and that on that day since he was drunk heavily so I had gone to Munirka to bring him to my house and hence, I was driving the bus on that day.	None
I had gone to Munirka with my nephew on my cycle to fetch Ram Singh since deceased and that the other boys alongwith Ram Singh had already taken the bus from R.K.Puram.	None
I was called by Ram Singh on phone to come at Munirka.	None
A3, Akshay Thakur, in his statement under Section 313 CrPC, has admitted that he was working with A1, Ram Singh (since deceased), in the offending bus, Ex.P1, as a helper.	None
He has also admitted therein that he had joined A1, Ram Singh (since deceased), on 03.11.2012.	None
The relevant portion of his statement under Section 313 CrPC is extracted hereunder Q.210	None
It is in evidence against you that PW81 Shri Dinesh Yadav is the owner of the bus Ex.	None
P1 and that he has employed accused Ram Singh, since deceased, as the driver of the bus in the month of December, 2012 and you accused Akshay was working as helper in the said bus.	None
Further, he deposed that on 25.12.2012 he had handed over the documents relating to the bus to the investigating officer, seized vide memo Ex.	None
PW80/K. The copy of the challan and copy of the notice are collectively Ex.P81/1 and the register on which Yadav Travels 2012 is written is Ex.P81/2.	None
He also identified the driving license Ex.P74/1 of his driver, accused Ram Singh, since deceased.	None
He further deposed that the bus Ex.	None
P1 used to ply in Birla Vidya Niketan as well as chartered bus and used to take the officegoers from Delhi and drop them at Noida every morning and evening.	None
What do you have to say?Ans It is correct that I was working as a helper in the bus Ex.P1.	None
I joined Ram Singh, since deceased as helper on 3.11.2012 but I left the company of Ram Singh on 15.12.2012 at about 10.30 AM and I left for my village at 1130 am and I went to New Delhi Railway Station and I left Delhi in the train at about 230 P.M. DW5, Smt.	None
Champa Devi, is the mother of Vinay Sharma, A4.	None
She has stated in her evidence that her son, Vinay Sharma, A4, who returned home at 400 p.m. on 16.12.2012, went in search of A1 on hearing about the misbehaviour of A1, Ram Singh (since deceased), with his sister and was able to trace him by 800 p.m. and that her son Vinay Sharma, A4, had quarreled with Ram Singh, A1.	None
She has deposed in her evidence that her son Vinay Sharma returned bleeding from his mouth and after some time they had left to the DDA District Park to attend a musical programme where they had met A5, Pawan alias Kaalu, alongwith two others.	None
The prosecution has, thus, established that the accused were associated with each other.	None
The criminal acts done in furtherance of conspiracy is established by the sequence of events and the conduct of the accused.	None
An important facet of the law of conspiracy is that apart from it being a distinct offence, all conspirators are liable for the acts of each other of the crime or crimes which have been committed as a result of the conspiracy.	None
Section 10 of the Indian Evidence Act which reads as under is relevant in this context Things said or done by conspirator in reference to common design.	None
Where there is reasonable ground to believe that two or more persons have conspired together to commit an offence or an actionable wrong, anything said, done or written by any one of such persons in reference to their common intention, after the time when such intention was first entertained by any one of them, is a relevant fact as against each of the persons believed to so conspiring, as well for the purpose of proving the existence of the conspiracy as for the purpose of showing that any such person was a party to it.	None
Section 10 of the Indian Evidence Act begins with the phrase where there is reasonable ground to believe that two or more persons have conspired together to commit an offence which implies that if prima facie evidence of the existence of a conspiracy is given and accepted, the evidence of acts and statements made by any one of the conspirators in furtherance of the common intention is admissible against all.	None
In the facts of the present case, the prima facie evidence of the existence of conspiracy is well established.	None
The informant, PW1, has also deposed as to the clarity of the entire incident.	None
He has identified all the accused to be present in the bus when he had boarded the same with the prosecutrix.	None
He has maintained that he saw three persons sitting in the drivers cabin who were moving in and out of the cabin.	None
Both the informant and the prosecutrix had sensed some sort of hostility and strangeness in the behaviour of the accused.	None
But, as they had paid for the ticket, they quietly kept sitting.	None
Soon they found that the lights in the bus were put off and the accused Ram Singh (since deceased) and accused Akshay came near them to ask where PW1 was heading with the prosecutrix at that odd time of the evening.	None
PW1, on objecting to such a query, was beaten and pinned down by the accused.	None
Thereafter, all the accused, one after the other, committed rape and unnatural sex on the prosecutrix using iron rods which has been explicitly described by the prosecutrix herself in her dying declarations recorded by PW27, SubDivisional Magistrate, and PW30, Metropolitan Magistrate.	None
The relevant portion of the second dying declaration of the prosecutrix as contained in Ex.	None
PW27/A is as under Q.09 Iske baad kya hua?	None
Kripya vistaar se bataiye.	None
Ans.09	None
Paanch minute baad jab bus Malai Mandir ke pul par chadi toh conductor ne bus ke darwaze bandh kar diye aur andar ki batiya bujha di aur mere dost ke paas akar galiyan dene lage aur marne lage.	None
Usko 34 logo ne pakad liya aur mujh ko baki log mujhe bus ke peechey hisey mein le gaye aur mere kapde faad diye aur bari2 se rape kiya.	None
Lohey ki rod se mujhe mere paet par maara aur poore shareer par danto se kata. Is se pehle mere dost ka saman  mobile phone, purse, credit card debit card, ghadi aadi cheen liye.	None
But total chhey (6) log the jinhoney baribari se oral (oral) vaginal (through vagina) aur pichhey se (anal) balatkar kiya.	None
In logo ne lohe ki rod ko mere shareer ke andar vaginal guptang aur guda (pichhey se) (through rectum) dala aur phir bahar bhi nikala.	None
Aur mere guptango haath aur lohe ki rod dal kar mere shareer ke andruni hisson ko bahar nikala aur chot pahunchayi.	None
Chhey logo ne baribari se mere saath kareeb ek ghante tak balatkar kiya.	None
Chalti huyi bus mein he driver badalta raha taaki woh bhi balatkar kar sake.	None
The chain of events described by the prosecutrix in her dying declarations coupled with the testimonies of the other witnesses clearly establish that as soon as the informant and the prosecutrix boarded the bus, the accused persons formed an agreement to commit heinous offences against the victim.	None
Forcefully having sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix, one after the other, inserting iron rod in her private parts, dragging her by her hair and then throwing her out of the bus all establish the common intent of the accused to rape and murder the prosecutrix.	None
The trial court has rightly recorded that the prosecutrixs alimentary canal from the level of duodenum upto 5 cm of anal sphincter was completely damaged.	None
It was beyond repair.	None
Causing of damage to the jejunum is indicative of the fact that the rod was inserted through the vagina and or anus upto the level of jejunum.	None
Further, septicemia was the direct result of multiple internal injuries.	None
Moreover, the prosecutrix has also maintained in her dying declaration that the accused persons were exhorting that the prosecutrix had died and she be thrown out of the bus.	None
Ultimately, both the prosecutrix as well as the informant were thrown out of the moving bus through the front door by the accused after having failed to throw them through the rear door.	Facts
The conduct of the accused in committing heinous offences with the prosecutrix in concert with each other and thereafter throwing her out of the bus in an unconscious state alongwith PW1 unequivocaly bring home the charge under Section 120B in case of each of them.	None
The criminal acts done in furtherance of the conspiracy is evident from the acts and also the words uttered during the commission of the offence.	None
Therefore, we do not have the slightest hesitation in holding that the trial court and the High Court have correctly considered the entire case on the touchstone of wellrecognised principles for arriving at the conclusion of criminal conspiracy.	None
The prosecution has been able to unfurl the case relating to criminal conspiracy by placing the materials on record and connecting the chain of circumstances.	None
The relevant evidence on record lead to a singular conclusion that the accused persons are liable for criminal conspiracy and their confessions to counter the same deserve to be repelled.	None
Summary of conclusions From the critical analysis, keen appreciation of the evidence and studied scrutiny of the oral evidence and other materials, we arrive at the following conclusions The evidence of PW1 is unimpeachable and it deserves to be relied upon.ii.	None
The accused persons alongwith the juvenile in conflict with law were present in the bus when the prosecutrix and her friend got into the bus.iii.	None
There is no reason or justification to disregard the CCTV footage, for the same has been duly proved and it clearly establishes the description and movement of the bus.iv.	None
The arrest of the accused persons from various places at different times has been clearly proven by the prosecution.v.	None
The personal search, recoveries and the disclosure leading to recovery are in consonance with law and the assail of the same on the counts of custodial confession made under torture and other pleas are highly specious pleas and they do not remotely create a dent in the said aspects.vi.	None
The contention raised by the accused persons that the recoveries on the basis of disclosure were a gross manipulation by the investigating agency and deserve to be thrown overboard does not merit acceptance.vii.	None
The relationship between the parties having been clearly established, their arrest gains more credibility and the involvement of each accused gains credence.viii.	None
The dying declarations, three in number, do withstand close scrutiny and they are consistent with each other.ix.	None
The stand that the deceased could not have given any dying declaration because of her health condition has to be repelled because the witnesses who have stated about the dying declarations have stood embedded to their version and nothing has been brought on record to discredit the same.	None
That apart, the dying declaration by gestures has been proved beyond reasonable doubt.x.	None
There is no justification in any manner whatsoever to think that PW1 and the deceased would falsely implicate the accusedappellants and leave the real culprits.xi.	None
The dying declarations made by the deceased have received corroboration from the oral and documentary evidence and also enormously from the medical evidence.xii.	None
The DNA profiling, which has been done after taking due care for quality, proves to the hilt the presence of the accused persons in the bus and their involvement in the crime.	None
The submission that certain samples were later on taken from the accused and planted on the deceased to prove the DNA aspect is noted only to be rejected because it has no legs to stand upon.xiii.	None
The argument that the transfusion of blood has the potentiality to give rise to two categories of DNA or two DNAs is farthest from truth and there is no evidence on that score.	None
On the contrary, the evidence in exclusivity points to the matching of the DNA of the deceased with that of the accused on many aspects.	None
The evidence brought on record with regard to finger prints is absolutely impeccable and the trial court and the High Court have correctly placed reliance on the same and we, in our analysis, have found that there is no reason to disbelieve the same.xiv.	None
The scientific evidence relating to odontology shows how far the accused have proceeded and where the bites have been found and definitely, it is extremely impossible to accept the submission that it has been a manipulation by the investigating agency to rope in the accused persons.xv.	None
The evidence brought on record as regards criminal conspiracy stands established.	None
In view of the aforesaid summation, the inevitable conclusion is that the prosecution has proved the charges leveled against the appellants beyond reasonable doubt.	None
Sentencing procedure and compliance of Section 235(2) CrPC Now we shall proceed to sentencing.	None
A submission was raised that provisions of Section 235(2) CrPC was not complied with.	None
The said provision reads as follows Judgment of acquittal or conviction(1)	None
(2) If the accused is convicted, the Judge shall, unless he proceeds in accordance with the provisions of Section 360, hear the accused on the question of sentence, and then pass sentence on him according to law.	None
While discussing Section 235(2) CrPC, this Court, in Santa Singh v. State of Punjab, (1976) 4 SCC 190 observed as follows 4.	None
the hearing contemplated by Section 235(2) is not confined merely to hearing oral submissions, but it is also intended to give an opportunity to the prosecution and the accused to place before the court facts and material relating to various factors bearing on the question of sentence and if they are contested by either side, then to produce evidence for the purpose of establishing the same.	None
A threeJudge Bench in Dagdu and others v. State of Maharashtra, (1977) 3 SCC 68 considered the object and scope of Section 235(2) CrPC and held that But we are unable to read the judgment in Santa Singh as laying down that the failure on the part of the Court, which convicts an accused, to hear him on the question of sentence must necessarily entail a remand to that Court in order to afford to the accused an opportunity to be heard on the question us sentence.	None
The Court, on convicting an accused, must unquestionably hear him on the qustion of sentence.	None
But if, for any reason, it omits to do so and the accused makes a grievance of it in the higher court, it would be open to that Court to remedy the breach by giving a hearing to the accused on the question of sentence.	None
That opportunity has to be real and effective, which means that the accused must be permitted to adduce before the Court all the data which he desires to adduce on the question of sentence.	None
The accused may exercise that right either by instructing his counsel to make oral submissions to the Court or he may, on affidavit or otherwise, place in writing before the Court whatever he desires to place before it on the question of sentence.	None
The Court may, in appropriate cases, have to adjourn the matter in order to give to the accused sufficient time to produce the necessary data and to make his contentions on the question of sentence.	None
That, perhaps, must inevitably happen where the conviction is recorded for the first time by a higher court.80.	None
Bhagwati, J. has observed in his judgment that care ought to be taken to ensure that the opportunity of a hearing on the question of sentence is nut abused and turned into an instrument for unduly protracting the proceedings.	None
The material on which the accused proposes to rely may therefore, according to the learned Judge, be placed before the Court by means of an affidavit.	None
Fazal Ali, J., also observes that the courts must be vigilant to exercise proper control over their proceedings, that the accused must not be permitted to adopt dilatory tactics under the cover of the new right and that what Section 235(2) contemplates is a short and simple opportunity to place the necessary material before the Court.	None
These observations show that for a proper and effective implementation of the provision contained in Section 235(2), it is not always necessary to remand the matter to the court which has recorded the conviction.	None
The fact that in Santa Singh this Court remanded the matter to the Sessions Court does not spell out the ratio of the judgment to be that in every such case there has to be a remand.	None
Remand is an exception, not the rule, and ought therefore to be avoided as far as possible in the interests of expeditious, though fair, disposal of cases.	None
Mr. Raju Ramachandran, learned amicus curiae, submitted that the sentence passed by the trial court that has been confirmed by the High Court ought to be set aside as they have not followed the fundamental norms of sentencing and have not been guided by the paramount beacons of legislative policy discernible from Section 354(3) and Section 235(2) CrPC.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged by him that the import of Section 235 CrPC is not only to hear the submissions orally but also to afford an opportunity to the prosecution and the defence to place the relevant material having bearing on the question of sentence.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned amicus curiae would submit that the trial court as well as the High Court has failed to put any of the accused persons to notice on the question of imposition of death sentence that sufficient time was not granted to reflect on the question of death penalty that none of the accused persons were heard in person that the learned trial Judge has failed to elicit those circumstances of the accused which would have a bearing on the question of sentence, especially the mitigating factors in a case where death penalty is imposed that no separate reasons were ascribed for the imposition of death penalty on each of the accused and that it was obligatory on the part of the learned trial Judge to individually afford an opportunity to the accused persons.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned amicus curiae would submit that the learned trial Judge has pronounced the sentence in a routine manner which vitiates the sentence inasmuch as the solemn duty of the sentencing court has not been kept in view.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ramachandran had emphatically put forth that denial of an individualized sentencing process results in the denial of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India.	None
Mr. Luthra, learned senior counsel for the respondentState, submitted that the learned trial Judge had heard the accused persons and there has been compliance with Section 235(2) CrPC and the High Court has appositely concurred with the same.	None
Be it stated, after hearing the learned counsel for the both sides and the learned amicus curiae, the Court, on 03.02.2017, passed the following order After the argument for the accused persons by Mr. M.L. Sharma and Mr. A.P. Singh, learned counsel were advanced, we thought it appropriate to hear the learned friends of the Court and, accordingly, we have heard Mr. Raju Ramachandran and Mr. Sanjay R. Hegde, learned senior counsel.	None
It is worthy to note here that Mr. Hegde, learned senior counsel argued on the sustainability of the conviction on many a ground and submitted a written note of submission.	None
Mr. Ramachandran, learned senior counsel, inter alia, emphasized on the aspect of sentence imposed by the trial court which has been confirmed under Section 366 Cr.P.C.	None
While arguing with regard to the imposition of the capital punishment on the accused persons, one of the main submissions of Mr. Ramachandran was that neither the trial court nor the High Court has followed the mandate enshrined under Section 235(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	None
Section 235(2) Cr.P.C. reads as follows235.	None
Judgment of acquittal or conviction.	None
(1) After hearing arguments and points of law (if any), the Judge shall give a judgment in the case.	None
(2) If the accused is convicted, the Judge shall, unless he proceeds in accordance with the provisions of section 360, hear the accused on the question of sentence, and then pass sentence on him according to law.	None
Referring to the procedure adopted by the trial court, it was urged by Mr. Ramachandran that the learned trial Judge had not considered the aggravating and mitigating circumstances, as are required to be considered in view of the Constitution Bench decision in Bachan Singh v. State of Punjab, (1980) 2 SCC 684 and further there has been a failure of the substantive law, inasmuch as there has been weighing of the mitigating or the aggravating circumstances in respect of each individual accused.	None
Learned senior counsel contended that Section 235(2) Cr.	None
P.C. is not a mere formality and in a case when there are more than one accused, it is obligatory on the part of the learned trial Judge to hear the accused individually on the question of sentence and deal with him.	None
As put forth by Mr. Ramachandran, the High Court has also failed to take pains in that regard.	None
To bolster his submission, he has commended us to the authority in Santa Singh v. The State of Punjab.	None
In the said case, Bhagwati, J. dealt with the anatomy of Section 235 Cr.P.C., the purpose and purport behind it and, eventually, came to hold thatLaw strives to give them social and economic justice and it has, therefore, necessarily to be weighted in favour of the weak and the exposed.	None
This is the new law which judges are now called upon to administer and it is, therefore, essential that they should receive proper training which would bring about an orientation in their approach and outlook, stimulate sympathies in them for the vulnerable sections of the community and inject a new awareness and sense of public commitment in them.	None
They should also be educated in the new trends in penology and sentencing procedures so that they may learn to use penal law as a tool for reforming and rehabilitating criminals and smoothening out the uneven texture of the social fabric and not as a weapon, fashioned by law, for protecting and perpetuating the hegemony of one class over the other.	None
Be that as it may, it is clear that the learned Sessions Judge was not aware of the provision in section 235(2) and so also was the lawyer of the appellant in the High Court unaware of it.	None
No inference can, therefore, be drawn from the omission of the appellant to raise this point, that he had nothing to Say in regard to the sentence and that consequently no prejudice was caused to him.	None
Thereafter, the learned Judge opined that noncompliance goes to the very root of the matter and it results in vitiating the sentence imposed.	None
Eventually, Bhagwati, J. set aside the sentence of death and remanded the case to the court of session with a direction to pass appropriate sentence after giving an opportunity to the appellant therein to be heard in regard to the question of sentence in accordance with the provision contained in Section 235(2) Cr.P.C. as interpreted by him.	None
In the concurring opinion, Fazal Ali, J., ruled thusThe last point to be considered is the extent and import of the word hear used in Section 235(2) of the 1973 Code.	None
Does it indicate, that the accused should enter into a fresh trial by producing oral and documentary evidence on the question of the sentence which naturally will result in further delay of the trial?	None
The Parliament does not appear to have intended that the accused should adopt dilatory tactics under the cover of this new provision but contemplated that a short and simple opportunity has to be given to the accused to place materials if necessary by leading evidence before the Court bearing on the question of sentence and a consequent opportunity to the prosecution to rebut those materials.	None
The Law Commission was fully aware of this anomaly and it accordingly suggested thusWe are aware that a provision for an opportunity to give evidence in this respect may necessitate an adjournment and to avoid delay adjournment, for the purpose should, ordinarily be for not more than 14 days.	None
It may be so provided in the relevant clause.	None
It may not be practicable to keep up to the timelimit suggested by the Law Commission with mathematical accuracy but the Courts must be vigilant to exercise proper control over the proceedings so that the trial is not unavoidably or unnecessarily delayed.	None
The said decision was considered by a threeJudge Bench in Dagdu and Others v. State of Maharashtra (1977) 3 SCC 68.	None
The threeJudge Bench referred to the law laid down in Santa Singh (supra) and opined that the mandate of Section 235 (2) Cr.	None
P.C. has to be obeyed in letter and spirit.	None
However, the larger Bench thought that Santa Singh (supra) does not lay down as a principle that failure on the part of the Court which convicts an accused, to hear him on the question of sentence must necessarily entail a remand to that Court in order to afford the accused an opportunity to be heard on the question of sentence.	None
Chandrachud, J. (as His Lordship then was) speaking for the Bench ruled thusThe Court, on convicting an accused, must unquestionably hear him on the question of sentence.	None
But if, for any reason, it omits to do so and the accused makes a grievance of it in the higher court, it would be open to that Court to remedy the breach by giving a hearing to the accused on the question of sentence.	None
That opportunity has to be real and effective, which means that the accused must be permitted to adduce before the Court all the data which he desires to adduce on the question of sentence.	None
The accused may exercise that right either by instructing his counsel to make oral submissions to the Court or he may, on affidavit or otherwise, place in writing before the Court whatever he desires to place before it on the question of sentence.	None
The Court may, in appropriate cases, have to adjourn the matter in order to give to the accused sufficient time to produce the necessary data and to make his contentions on the question of sentence.	None
That, perhaps, must inevitably happen where the conviction is recorded for the first time by a higher court.	None
It is seemly to note here that Mr. Ramachandran has also commended us to a threeJudge Bench decision in Malkiat Singh and Others v. State of Punjab (1991) 4 SCC 341 , wherein the threeJudge Bench ruled that sufficient time has to be given to the accused or the prosecution on the question of sentence, to show the grounds on which the prosecution may plead or the accused may show that the maximum sentence of death may be the appropriate sentence or the minimum sentence of life imprisonment may be awarded, as the case may be.	None
Learned senior counsel has also drawn our attention to a twoJudge Bench decision in Ajay Pandit alias Jagdish Dayabhai Patel and Another v. State of Maharashtra (2012) 8 SCC 43 , wherein the matter was remanded to the High Court.	None
Mr. Ramachandran has drawn our attention to paragraph 47 of the said authority.	Arguments of Petitioner
It reads as followsAwarding death sentence is an exception, nor the rule, and only in the rarest of rare cases, the court could award death sentence.	None
The state of mind of a person awaiting death sentence and the state of mind of a person who has been awarded life sentence may not be the same mentally and psychologically.	None
The court has got a duty and obligation to elicit relevant facts even if the accused has kept totally silent in such situations.	None
In the instant case, the High Court has not addressed the issue in the correct perspective bearing in mind those relevant factors, while questioning the accused and, therefore, committed a gross error of procedure in not properly assimilating and understanding the purpose and object behind Section 235(2) CrPC.Having considered all the authorities, we find that there are two modes, one is to remand the matter or to direct the accused persons to produce necessary data and advance the contention on the question of sentence.	None
Regard being had to the nature of the case, we think it appropriate to adopt the second mode.	None
To elaborate, we would like to give opportunity before conclusion of the hearing to the accused persons to file affidavits along with documents stating about the mitigating circumstances.	None
Needless to say, for the said purpose, it is necessary that the learned counsel, Mr. M.L. Sharma and his associate Ms. Suman and Mr. A.P. Singh and his associate Mr. V.P. Singh should be allowed to visit the jail and communicate with the accused persons and file the requisite affidavits and materials.	None
At this juncture, Mr. M.L. Sharma, learned counsel has submitted that on many a occasion, he has faced difficulty as he had to wait in the jail to have a dialogue with his clients.	None
Mr. Sidharth Luthra, learned senior counsel has submitted that if this Court directs, Mr. M.L. Sharma and Mr. A.P. Singh, learned counsel and their associate Advocates can visit the jail at 2.45 p.m. each day and they shall be allowed to enter the jail between 3.00 p.m. to 3.15 p.m. and can spend time till 5.00 p.m. Needless to say, they can commence their visits from 7th February, 2017, and file the necessary separate affidavits and documents.	None
After the affidavits are made ready by the learned counsel for the accused persons, they can intimate about the same to Mr. Luthra, who in his turn, shall intimate the same to the Superintendent of Jail, who shall make arrangement for a Notary so that affidavits can be notarized, treating this as a direction of this Court.	None
Needless to say, while the learned counsel will be discussing with the accused persons, the meeting shall be held in separate rooms inside the jail premises so that they can have a free discussion with the accused persons.	None
Needless to say, they can reproduce in verbatim what the accused persons tell them in the affidavit.	None
The affidavits shall be filed by 23rd February, 2017.We may hasten to add that after the affidavits come on record, a date shall be fixed for hearing of the affidavits and pertaining to quantum of sentence if, eventually, the conviction is affirmed.	None
The learned counsel for the prosecution, needless to say, is entitled to file necessary affidavits with regard to the circumstances or reasons for sustenance of the sentence.	None
Additionally, the prosecution is given liberty to put forth in the affidavit any refutation, after the copies of the affidavits by the learned counsel for the accused persons are served on him.	None
For the said purpose, a weeks time is granted.	None
Needless to say, the matter shall be heard on sentence, after affidavits from both the sides are brought on record.	None
The date shall be given at 2.00 p.m. on 6th February, 2017.	None
For the present, the matter stands adjourned to 4th February, 2017, for hearing.	None
Let a copy of the order be handed over to Mr. Sidharth Luthra by 4th February, 2017, who shall get it translated in Hindi and give it to the Superintendent of Jail, who in his turn, shall hand over it to the accused persons and, simultaneously, explain the purport and effect of the order.	None
The Superintendent of Jail is also directed to submit a report with regard to the conduct of the accused persons while they are in custody.	None
After passing of the said order, the hearing continued and on 13.02.2017, the following order was passed Mr. A.P. Singh, learned counsel has concluded his arguments.	None
After his conclusion of the arguments, as per our order, dated 3.2.2017, affidavits are required to be filed by 23.2.2017.	None
Let the affidavits be filed by that date.	None
Mr. Siddharth Luthra, learned senior counsel appearing for the State shall file the affidavit by 2nd March, 2017.	None
Registry is directed to hand over copies of the affidavits to Mr. K. Parameshwar, learned counsel assisting Mr. Raju Ramachandran, learned senior counsel and Mr. Anil Kumar MishraI, learned counsel assisting Mr. Sanjay Kumar Hegde, learned senior counsel (Amicus Curiae).Mr.	None
Luthra, learned senior counsel shall make arrangements for visit of Mr. A.P. Singh and Mr. Manohar Lal Sharma, learned counsel for the petitioners even on Saturday and sunday.	None
He shall intimate our order to the jail authorities so that they can arrange the visit of Mr. A.P. Singh and Mr. Manohar Lal Sharma on Saturday and Sunday.	None
Let the matter be listed on 3.3.2017 for hearing on the question of sentence, aggravating and mitigating circumstances on the basis of the materials brought on record by learned counsel for the parties.	None
In pursuance of the aforesaid order, affidavits on behalf of the appellants have been filed.	None
It is necessary to note that the learned counsel for the appellants addressed the Court on the basis of affidavits on 06.03.2017 and the order passed on that date	None
is extracted hereunder Mr. A.P. Singh, learned counsel has filed affidavits on behalf of the three accused persons, namely, Pawan Kumar Gupta, Vinay Sharma and Akshay Kumar Singh and Mr. M.L. Sharma, learned counsel has filed the affidavit on behalf of Mukesh.	None
Be it noted,	None
Mr. A.P. Singh, learned counsel has filed the translated version of the affidavits and Mr. Manohar Lal Sharma, learned counsel has filed the original version in Hindi as well as the translated one.	None
At this juncture, Mr. Raju Ramachandran, learned senior counsel who has been appointed as Amicus Curiae to assist the Court, submitted that two aspects are required to be further probed to comply with the order dated 3.2.2017 inasmuch as this Court has taken the burden on itself for compliance of Section 235(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	None
Learned senior counsel would point out that the affidavit filed by Mukesh does not cover many aspects, namely, socioeconomic background, criminal antecedents, family particulars, personal habits, education, vocational skills, physical health and his conduct in the prison.	None
Mr. Manohar Lal Sharma, learned counsel submits that a report was asked for from the Superintendent of Jail with regard to the conduct of the accused persons while they are in custody, but the same has not directly been filed by the Superintendent of Jail.	None
Mr. Siddharth Luthra, learned senior counsel for the respondentState, would, per contra, contend that he has filed the affidavit and the affidavit contains the report of the Superintendent of Jail.	None
In our considered opinion, the Superintendent of Jail should have filed the report with regard to the conduct of the accused persons since they are in custody for almost four years.	None
That would have thrown light on their conduct.	None
Let the report with regard to their conduct be filed by the Superintendent of Jail in a sealed cover in the Court on the next date of hearing.	None
As far as the affidavit filed by Mukesh is concerned, Mr. Sharma, learned counsel stated that he will keep the aspects which are required to be highlighted in mind and file a further affidavit within a week hence.	None
The direction issued on the earlier occasion with regard to the visit of jail by the learned counsel for the parties shall remain in force till the next date of hearing.	None
Let the matter be listed at 2.00 p.m. on 20.3.2017.	None
The report of the Superintendent of Jail, as directed hereinabove, shall be filed in Court on that date.	None
Thereafter, the matter was heard on 20.03.2017 and the following order came to be passed Mr. M.L. Sharma, learned counsel has filed an additional affidavit of the petitioner, Mukesh and Mr. A.P. Singh, learned counsel has filed affidavits for the petitioners, Pawan Kumar Gupta, Vinay Kumar Sharma, and Akshay Kumar Singh.	None
Mr. Siddharth Luthra, learned senior counsel has produced two sealed covers containing the reports submitted by Superintendent of the Central Jail No.2 and the Superintendent of Central Jail No.4 in respect of the petitioners who are in the respective jails.	None
Two sealed covers are opened in presence of the learned counsel for the parties.	None
They be kept on record.	None
Registry is directed to supply a copy of the aforesaid reports to Mr. M.L. Sharma and Mr. A.P. Singh, learned counsel for the petitioners.	None
Registry shall also supply a copy thereof to Mr. K. Parameshwar, learned counsel assisting Mr. Raju Ramachandran, learned Amicus Curiae and Mr. Anil Kumar MishraI, learned counsel assisting Mr. Sanjay R. Hegde, learned Amicus Curiae.	None
A copy of the report shall also be handed over to Ms. Supriya Juneja, learned counsel assisting Mr. Siddharth Luthra, learned senior counsel, for he does not have a copy as the reports have been produced before us in the sealed covers.	None
Mr. Siddharth Luthra, learned senior counsel prays for and is granted three days time to file a status report and argue the matter.	None
Delineation as regards the imposition of sentence Be it noted, we have heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties, Mr. Luthra, learned senior counsel for the respondentState, Mr. Ramachandran and Mr. Hegde on the question of sentence.	None
Before we advert to the principles for imposition of sentence, we think it appropriate to deal with the affidavits filed by the accused.	None
For the sake of convenience, it is necessary to make a summary of the affidavits.	None
Accused Mukesh, A2, filed his statement, written in his own handwriting in Hindi, denying his involvement in the occurrence and pleading innocence.	None
He stated that on 17.12.2012, he was picked up from his house at Karoli, Rajasthan and brought to Delhi where the police tortured him and threatened to kill him.	None
Therefore, he acted as per the direction of the police and V.K. Anand, Advocate.	None
He further stated that he is uneducated and poor, but not a criminal and if he is acquitted, he would go back to Karoli, Rajasthan and would take care of his parents.	None
Accused Akshay Kumar Singh, A3, has stated that he hails from a naxal affected area in District Aurangabad, Bihar and due to poverty, he could not continue his studies beyond 9th class.	None
He has stated that his aged father Shri Saryu Singh and mother, Smt.	None
Malti Devi, are dependent on him.	None
He has further stated that he is married to Punita Devi since 2010 and they have a son, now aged about six years.	None
He further stated that due to poverty and lack of adequate opportunity in home town, he came to Delhi in the month of November 2012 to earn his livelihood.	None
To maintain his dependants which include his parents, wife and child, he started working as a cleaner in the concerned bus at a wage of Rs. 50/ per day.	None
He reiterated his plea of alibi asserting that he had left Delhi on 15.12.2012 in Mahabodhi Express accompanied by his sisterinlaw, Sarita Devi, and went to his native place Karmalahang where he was arrested.	None
He further stated that after his confinement in Tihar Jail, he has been maintaining good behaviour and is working hard as a labourer in the prison to maintain his family.	None
Accused Vinay Sharma, A4, in his affidavit stated that he was born in Kapiya Kalan, Tehsil Rudra Nagar, District Basti, Uttar Pradesh and that his parents used to work as labourers and that his family is very poor.	None
The accused stated that he used to take care of his grandfather who was a religious saint and up to July, 2012, he was studying at his native place in Uttar Pradesh and only after July, 2012, he came to Delhi to pursue his further studies.	None
He has stated that he got himself admitted to the University of Delhi, School of Open Learning, Delhi and to earn his livelihood, he worked as a parttime instructor in gym and also as a seasonal waiter in hotels and marriage ceremonies at night.	None
Accused Vinay Sharma further stated that he has to take care of his ailing parents and also his younger sisters and younger brother, who are totally dependent on him.	None
In his affidavit, he reiterated his plea of alibi asserting that on the fateful day, he had participated in the Christmas celebration and was enjoying there with his family.	None
The accused has further stated that he has no criminal antecedents and after his confinement in Tihar Jail, he has maintained good behaviour and has also organized various musical programmes and his paintings are displayed in Tihar Jail.	None
Accused Pawan Gupta, A5, filed his affidavit stating that he comes from a very poor family where his father used to sell fruits on the road for their living.	None
He further stated that he is a resident of Cluster Jhuggi Basti and was assisting his father in selling fruits on a cart.	None
The accused also illustrated the ailing condition of his family stating that his parents are heart patients and his mother is a handicapped person suffering from BP and thyroid.	None
He also stated that his younger sister, Dimple Gupta, was under depression on account of the false implication of her brother in the present case and could not tolerate humiliation by the society and she has committed suicide on 09.02.2013.	None
Apart from that, he has to look after his dependant parents and two other sisters, one married and the other unmarried and aged 17 years, and one younger brother.	None
On behalf of accused Pawan Gupta, fervent plea was made that he has no prior criminal antecedent and after being confined to Central Jail, Tihar, he is trying to reform himself into a better person.	None
Mr. Ramachandran, learned amicus curiae, criticized the sentence, placed reliance on Bachan Singh v. State of Punjab, (1980) 2 SCC 684 and submitted that the trial court and the High Court have committed the error of not applying the doctrine of equality which prescribes similar treatment to similar persons and stated that the Court in Bachan Singh (supra) has categorically held that the extreme penalty can be inflicted only in gravest cases of extreme culpability in making the choice of sentence, in addition to the circumstances of the offence, due regard must be paid to the circumstances of the offender also and that the mitigating circumstances referred therein are undoubtedly relevant and must be given great weight in the determination of sentence.	None
Further placing reliance on Machhi Singh v. State of Punjab, (1983) 3 SCC 470 it is submitted by learned amicus curiae that in the said case, the Court held that a balance sheet of the aggravating and mitigating circumstances should be drawn up and the mitigating circumstances should be accorded full weightage and a just balance should be struck between the aggravating and mitigating circumstances.	None
He further pointed out number of decisions wherein this Court has given considerable weight to the circumstances of the criminal and commuted the sentence to life imprisonment.319.	None
Mr. Ramachandran further urged that in the present case, the decision in Bachan Singh (supra) was completely disregarded and the trial court, while sentencing the accused, only placed emphasis on the brutal and heinous nature of the crime and the mitigating factors including the possibility of reform and rehabilitation were ruled out on the basis of the nature of the crime and not on its own merits.	None
It is further contended by him that in Sangeet and another v. State of Haryana, (2013) 2 SCC 452 and Shankar Kisanrao Khade v. State of Maharashtra, (2013) 5 SCC 546 the decisions, i.e., Shiv v. High Court of Karnataka, (2007) 4 SCC 713 B.A.Umesh v. Registrar General, High Court of Karnataka, (2011) 3 SCC 85 and Dhananjoy Chaterjee v. State of West Bengal, (1994) 2 SCC 220 relied upon by the Special Public Prosecutor and the High Court, have been doubted by this Court.320.	None
Learned amicus curiae has further propounded that sentencing and nonconsideration of the mitigating circumstances are violative of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution.	None
It is his submission that the prosecutions argument on aggravating circumstances gets buttressed by the material on record while the plea of mitigating circumstances rests solely on arguments and this imbalance is a serious violation of the doctrine of fairness and reasonableness enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution that there should be a fair and principlebased sentencing process in death penalty cases by which a genuine and conscious attempt is made to investigate and evaluate the circumstances of the criminal that the fair and principled approaches are facets of Article 14 and that if the enumeration and evaluation of mitigating factors are left only to the accused or his counsel and the Court does not accord a principlebased treatment, the imposition of death penalty will be rendered the norm and not the exception, which is an inversion of the Bachan Singh (supra) logic and a serious violation of Article 21 of the Constitution.321.	None
Mr. Ramachandran submitted that the trial court and the High Court failed to pay due regard to the mitigating factors that the courts have committed the mistake of rejecting the mitigating factors by reasoning that it may not be sufficient for awarding life sentence and that the courts have not considered all the mitigating factors cumulatively to arrive at the conclusion whether the case fell within the rarest of rare category.	None
He has referred to the Constitution Bench decision in Triveniben v. State of Gujarat, (1989) 1 SCC 678 wherein Shetty, J. in his concurring opinion, opined that death sentence cannot be given if there is any one mitigating circumstance in favour of the accused and all circumstances of the case should be aggravating and submitted that this line of judicial thought has been completely ignored by the High Court and the trial court.322.	None
Learned amicus curiae further contended that the attribution of individual role with respect to the iron rod, which was a crucial consideration in convicting the accused under Section 302 IPC, was not considered by the trial court or the High Court in the sentencing process and stressed that when life imprisonment is the norm and death penalty the exception, the lack of individual role has tobe regarded as a major mitigating circumstance.	None
In this regard, reliance has been placed by him on Karnesh Singh v. State of U.P., AIR 1968 SC 1402 Ronny v. State of Maharashtra, (1998) 3 SCC 625 Nirmal Singh v. State of Haryana, (1999) 3 SCC 670 and Sahdeo v. State of U.P, (2004) 10 SCC 682.	None
323.	None
Mr. Ramachandran has also contended that subsequent to the pronouncement in Machhi Singh (supra), there are series of decisions by this Court where the Court has given considerable weight to the concept of reformation and rehabilitation and commuted the sentence to life imprisonment.	None
According to him, young age is a mitigating factor and this Court has taken note of the same in Raghubir Singh v. State of Haryana, (1975) 3 SCC 37 Harnam Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (1976) 1 SCC 163 Amit v. State of Maharashtra, (2003) 8 SCC 93 Rahul v. State of Maharashtra, (2005) 10 SCC 322 Rameshbhai Chandubhai Rathod v. State of Gujarat, (2009)	None
5 SCC 740 Santosh Kumar Bariyar v. State of Maharashtra, (2009) 6 SCC 498 Sebastian v. State of Kerala, (2010) 1 SCC 58	None
Santosh Kumar Singh (supra), Rameshbhai Chandubhai Rathod II v. State of Gujarat, (2011) 2 SCC 764 Amit v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (2012) 4 SCC 107 and Lalit Kumar Yadav v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (2014) 11 SCC 129.	None
That apart, it is urged by him that when the crime is not premeditated, the same becomes a mitigating factor and that has been taken note of by this Court in the authorities in Akhtar v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (1999) 6 SCC 60 Raju v. State of Haryana, (2001) 9 SCC 50 and Amrit Singh v. State of Punjab, (2006) 12 SCC 79.	None
324.	None
Learned amicus curiae would further urge that when the criminal antecedents are lacking and the prosecution has not been able to say about that the appellants deserve imposition of lesser sentence.	None
For the said purpose, he has commended us to the authorities in Nirmal Singh (supra), Raju v. State of Haryana (supra), Amit v. State of Maharashtra (supra), Surender Pal v. State of Gujarat, (2005) 3 SCC 127 Rameshbhai Chandubhai Rathod II (supra), Amit v. State of Uttar Pradesh (supra), Anil v. State of Maharashtra, (2014) 4 SCC 69 and Lalit Kumar Yadav v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (2014) 11 SCC 129.	None
325.	None
Learned senior counsel has emphasized on the reform, rehabilitation and absence of any continuing threat to the collective which are factors to be taken into consideration for the purpose of commutation of death penalty to life imprisonment.	None
In this regard, learned senior counsel has drawn inspiration from the decisions in Ronny (supra), Nirmal Singh (supra), Bantu v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (2001) 9 SCC 615 Lehna (supra), Rahul (supra), Santosh Kumar Bariyar (supra), Santosh Kumar Singh (supra), Rajesh Kumar v. State, (2011) 13 SCC 706	None
Amit v. State of Uttar Pradesh (supra), Ramnaresh v. State of Chhattisgarh, (2012) 4 SCC 257 Sandesh v. State of Maharashtra, (2013) 2 SCC 479 and Lalit Kumar Yadav (supra).326.	None
Mr. Ramachandran has also submitted that the present case should be treated as a special category as has been held in Swamy Shradhananda (2) v. State of Karnataka, (2008) 13 SCC 767 and the recent Constitution Bench decision in Union of India v. Sriharan, (2016) 7 SCC 1.	None
It is urged by him that in many a case, this Court has exercised the said discretion.	None
Learned senior counsel in that regard has drawn our attention to the pronouncements in Rameshbhai Chandubhai Rathod (supra), Neel Kumar v. State of Haryana, (2012) 5 SCC 766 Ram Deo Prasad v. State of Bihar, (2013) 7 SCC 725 Chhote Lal v.State of Madhya Pradesh, (2013) 9 SCC 795 Anil v. State of Maharashtra (supra), Rajkumar (supra) and Selvam v. State, (2014) 12 SCC 274.	None
327.	None
Mr. Hegde, learned friend of the Court, canvassed that the theory of reformation cannot be ignored entirely in the obtaining factual matrix in view of the materials brought on record.	None
Learned senior counsel would contend that imposition of death penalty would be extremely harsh and totally unwarranted inasmuch as the case at hand does not fall in the category of rarest of rare case.	None
That apart, it is contended by him that the entire incident has to be viewed from a different perspective, that is, the accused persons had the bus in their control, they were drunk, and situation emerged where the povertystricken persons felt empowered as a consequence of which the incident took place and considering the said aspect, they may be imposed substantive custodial sentence for specific years but not death penalty.	None
Additionally, it is submitted by him that in the absence of premeditation to commit a crime of the present nature, it would not invite the harshest punishment.	None
Mr. Luthra, learned senior counsel, has referred to the reports of the Superintendent of Jail that the conduct of the accused persons in the jail has been absolutely nonsatisfactory and noncooperative and the diabolic nature of the crime has shaken the collective conscience.	None
According to him, the diabolic nature of the crime has nothing to do with poverty, for it was not committed for alleviation of poverty but to satiate their sexual appetite and enormous perversity.	None
He would submit that this would come in the category of rarest of the rare cases in view of the law laid down in Sevaka Perumal v. State of Tamil Nadu, (1991) 3 SCC 471 Kamta Tiwari v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (1996) 6 SCC 250 State of U.P. v. Satish, (2005) 3 SCC 114	None
Holiram Bordoloi v. State of Assam, (2005) 3 SCC 793 Ankush Maruti Shinde v. State of Maharashtra, (2009) 6 SCC 667 Sundar v. State, (2013) 3 SCC 215 and Mohfil Khan v. State of Jharkhand, (2015) 1 SCC 67.	None
329.	None
It is also submitted by Mr. Luthra that mitigating circumstances are required to be considered in the light of the offence and not alone on the backdrop of age and family background.	None
For this purpose, he has relied upon Deepak Rai v. State of Bihar, (2013) 10 SCC 421 and Purshottam Dashrath Borate v. State of Maharashtra, (2015) 6 SCC 652.	None
Mr. Sharma and Mr. Singh, learned counsel for the appellants, would submit that the conduct of the accused persons shows reformation as there are engaged in educating themselves and also they have been participating in affirmative and constructive activities adopted in jail and so, death penalty should not be affirmed and should be commuted.	None
Mr. Sharma, learned counsel appearing for the accused Mukesh, submits that he is not connected with the crime in question.	None
It is put forth that the case at hand cannot be regarded as rarest of the rare cases and, therefore, the maximum punishment that can be given should be for a specific period.	None
Presently, we shall proceed to analyse the aforesaid aspect.	None
In Bachan Singh (supra), the Court held thus The normal rule is that the offence of murder shall be punished with the sentence of life imprisonment.	None
The court can depart from that rule and impose the sentence of death only if there are special reasons for doing so.	None
Such reasons must be recorded in writing before imposing the death sentence.(b) While considering the question of sentence to be imposed for the offence of murder under Section 302 of the Penal Code, the court must have regard to every relevant circumstance relating to the crime as well as the criminal.	None
If the court finds, but not otherwise, that the offence is of an exceptionally depraved and heinous character and constitutes, on account of its design and the manner of its execution, a source of grave danger to the society at large, the court may impose the death sentence.	None
In the said case, the Court, after referring to the authority in Furman v. Georgia, 33 L Ed 2d 346 408 US 238 (1972) noted the suggestion given by the learned counsel about the aggravating and the mitigating circumstances.	None
The aggravating circumstances suggested by the counsel read as follows Aggravating circumstancesA court may, however, in the following cases impose the penalty of death in its discretion(a) if the murder has been committed after previous planning and involves extreme brutality or(b) if the murder involves exceptional depravity or(c) if the murder is of a member of any of the armed forces of the Union or of a member of any police force or of any public servant and was committed(i) while such member or public servant was on duty or(ii) in consequence of anything done or attempted to be done by such member or public servant in the lawful discharge of his duty as such member or public servant whether at the time of murder he was such member or public servant, as the case may be, or had ceased to be such member or public servant or(d) if the murder is of a person who had acted in the lawful discharge of his duty under Section 43 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, or who had rendered assistance to a Magistrate or a police officer demanding his aid or requiring his assistance under Section 37 and Section 129 of the said Code.	None
After reproducing the same, the Court opined Stated broadly, there can be no objection to the acceptance of these indicators but as we have indicated already, we would prefer not to fetter judicial discretion by attempting to make an exhaustive enumeration one way or the other.	None
Thereafter, the Court referred to the suggestions pertaining to mitigating circumstances Mitigating circumstances.	None
In the exercise of its discretion in the above cases, the court shall take into account the following circumstances(1) That the offence was committed under the influence of extreme mental or emotional disturbance.(2)	None
The age of the accused.	None
If the accused is young or old, he shall not be sentenced to death.(3)	None
The probability that the accused would not commit criminal acts of violence as would constitute a continuing threat to society.(4)	None
The probability that the accused can be reformed and rehabilitated.	None
The State shall by evidence prove that the accused does not satisfy the conditions (3) and (4) above.(5) That in the facts and circumstances of the case the accused believed that he was morally justified in committing the offence.(6) That the accused acted under the duress or domination of another person.(7) That the condition of the accused showed that he was mentally defective and that the said defect impaired his capacity to appreciate the criminality of his conduct.	None
The Court then observed We will do no more than to say that these are undoubtedly relevant circumstances and must be given great weight in the determination of sentence.	None
In the said case, the Court has also held thus	None
It is, therefore, imperative to voice the concern that courts, aided by the broad illustrative guidelines indicated by us, will discharge the onerous function with evermore scrupulous care and humane concern, directed along the highroad of legislative policy outlined in Section 354(3) viz.	None
that for persons convicted of murder, life imprisonment is the rule and death sentence an exception.	None
A real and abiding concern for the dignity of human life postulates resistance to taking a life through laws instrumentality.	None
That ought not to be done save in the rarest of rare cases when the alternative option is unquestionably foreclosed.	None
In Machhi Singh (supra), a threeJudge Bench has explained the concept of rarest of the rare cases by observing thus The reasons why the community as a whole does not endorse the humanistic approach reflected in death sentenceinnocase doctrine are not far to seek.	None
In the first place, the very humanistic edifice is constructed on the foundation of reverence for life principle.	None
When a member of the community violates this very principle by killing another member, the society may not feel itself bound by the shackles of this doctrine.	None
Secondly, it has to be realised that every member of the community is able to live with safety without his or her own life being endangered because of the protective arm of the community and on account of the rule of law enforced by it.	None
The very existence of the rule of law and the fear of being brought to book operates as a deterrent for those who have no scruples in killing others if it suits their ends.	None
Every member of the community owes a debt to the community for this protection.	None
Thereafter, the Court has adverted to the aspects of the feeling of the community and its desire for selfpreservation and opined that the community may well withdraw the protection by sanctioning the death penalty.	None
What has been ruled in this regard is worth reproducing But the community will not do so in every case.	None
It may do so in the rarest of rare cases when its collective conscience is so shocked that it will expect the holders of the judicial power centre to inflict death penalty irrespective of their personal opinion as regards desirability or otherwise of retaining death penalty.	None
It is apt to state here that in the said case, stress was laid on certain aspects, namely, the manner of commission of the murder, the motive for commission of the murder, antisocial or socially abhorrent nature of the crime, magnitude of the crime and personality of the victim of murder.	None
After so enumerating, the propositions that emerged from Bachan Singh (supra) were culled out which are as follows The following propositions emerge from Bachan Singh case(i)	None
The extreme penalty of death need not be inflicted except in gravest cases of extreme culpability.(ii)	None
Before opting for the death penalty the circumstances of the offender also require to be taken into consideration along with the circumstances of the crime.(iii) Life imprisonment is the rule and death sentence is an exception.	None
In other words death sentence must be imposed only when life imprisonment appears to be an altogether inadequate punishment having regard to the relevant circumstances of the crime, and provided, and only provided, the option to impose sentence of imprisonment for life cannot be conscientiously exercised having regard to the nature and circumstances of the crime and all the relevant circumstances.(iv)	None
A balance sheet of aggravating and mitigating circumstances has to be drawn up and in doing so the mitigating circumstances have to be accorded full weightage and a just balance has to be struck between the aggravating and the mitigating circumstances before the option is exercised.	None
The threeJudge Bench further opined that to apply the said guidelines, the following questions are required to be answered Is there something uncommon about the crime which renders sentence of imprisonment for life inadequate and calls for a death sentence?(b)	None
Are the circumstances of the crime such that there is no alternative but to impose death sentence even after according maximum weightage to the mitigating circumstances which speak in favour of the offender?	None
In the said case, the Court upheld the extreme penalty of death in respect of three accused persons.	None
The Court in Haresh Mohandas Rajput v. State of Maharashtra, (2011) 12 SCC 56 while dealing with the situation where the death sentence is warranted, referred to the guidelines laid down in Bachan Singh (supra) and the principles culled out in Machhi Singh (supra) and opined as follows In Machhi Singh v. State of Punjab this Court expanded the rarest of rare formulation beyond the aggravating factors listed in Bachan Singh to cases where the collective conscience of the community is so shocked that it will expect the holders of the judicial power centre to inflict the death penalty irrespective of their personal opinion as regards desirability or otherwise of retaining the death penalty, such a penalty can be inflicted.	None
But the Bench in this case underlined that full weightage must be accorded to the mitigating circumstances in a case and a just balance had to be struck between the aggravating and the mitigating circumstances.	None
After so stating, the Court ruled thus The rarest of the rare case comes when a convict would be a menace and threat to the harmonious and peaceful coexistence of the society.	None
The crime may be heinous or brutal but may not be in the category of the rarest of the rare case.	None
There must be no reason to believe that the accused cannot be reformed or rehabilitated and that he is likely to continue criminal acts of violence as would constitute a continuing threat to the society.	None
The accused may be a menace to the society and would continue to be so, threatening its peaceful and harmonious coexistence.	None
The manner in which the crime is committed must be such that it may result in intense and extreme indignation of the community and shock the collective conscience of the society.	None
Where an accused does not act on any spurofthemoment provocation and indulges himself in a deliberately planned crime and meticulously executes it, the death sentence may be the most appropriate punishment for such a ghastly crime.	None
The death sentence may be warranted where the victims are innocent children and helpless women.	None
Thus, in case the crime is committed in a most cruel and inhuman manner which is an extremely brutal, grotesque, diabolical, revolting and dastardly manner, where his act affects the entire moral fibre of the society e.g. crime committed for power or political ambition or indulging in organised criminal activities, death sentence should be awarded.	None
(See C. Muniappan v. State of T.N, (2010) 9 SCC 567	None
Dara Singh v. Republic of India, (2011) 2 SCC 490 Surendra Koli v. State of U.P., (2011) 2 SCC 490 Mohd.	None
Mannan, (2011) 5 SCC 317 and Sudam v. State of Maharashtra, (2011) 7 SCC 125.)	None
21.	None
Thus, it is evident that for awarding the death sentence, there must be existence of aggravating circumstances and the consequential absence of mitigating circumstances.	None
As to whether the death sentence should be awarded, would depend upon the factual scenario of the case in hand.	None
This Court, while dealing with the murder of a young girl of about 18 years in Dhananjoy Chatterjee (supra), took note of the fact that the accused was a married man of 27 years of age, the principles stated in Bachan Singhs case and further took note of the rise of violent crimes against women in recent years and, thereafter, on consideration of the aggravating factors and mitigating circumstances, opined that In our opinion, the measure of punishment in a given case must depend upon the atrocity of the crime the conduct of the criminal and the defenceless and unprotected state of the victim.	None
Imposition of appropriate punishment is the manner in which the courts respond to the societys cry for justice against the criminals.	None
Justice demands that courts should impose punishment befitting the crime so that the courts reflect public abhorrence of the crime.	None
The courts must not only keep in view the rights of the criminal but also the rights of the victim of crime and the society at large while considering imposition of appropriate punishment.	None
After so stating, the Court took note of the fact that the deceased was a schoolgoing girl and it was the sacred duty of the appellant, being a security guard, to ensure the safety of the inhabitants of the flats in the apartment but to gratify his lust, he had raped and murdered the girl in retaliation which made the crime more heinous.	None
Appreciating the manner in which the barbaric crime was committed on a helpless and defenceless schoolgoing girl of 18 years, the Court came to hold that the case fell in the category of rarest of the rare cases and, accordingly, affirmed the capital punishment imposed by the High Court.	None
In Laxman Naik v. State of Orissa, (1994) 3 SCC 381 the Court commenced the judgment with the following passage The present case before us reveals a sordid story which took place sometime in the afternoon of February 17, 1990, in which the alleged sexual assault followed by brutal and merciless murder by the dastardly and monstrous act of abhorrent nature is said to have been committed by the appellant herein who is none else but an agnate and paternal uncle of the deceased victim Nitma, a girl of the tender age of 7 years who fell a prey to his lust which sends shocking waves not only to the judicial conscience but to everyone having slightest sense of human values and particularly to the blood relations and the society at large.	None
It is worthy to note that in the said case, the High Court had dismissed the appellants appeal and confirmed the death sentence awarded to him.	None
While discussing as regards the justifiability of the sentence, the Court referred to the decision in Bachan Singhs case and opined that there were absolutely no mitigating circumstances and, on the contrary, the facts of the case disclosed only aggravating circumstances against the appellant.	None
Elaborating further, the Court held thus The hard facts of the present case are that the appellant Laxman is the uncle of the deceased and almost occupied the status and position that of a guardian.	None
Consequently the victim who was aged about 7 years must have reposed complete confidence in the appellant and while reposing such faith and confidence in the appellant must have believed in his bona fides and it was on account of such a faith and belief that she acted upon the command of the appellant in accompanying him under the impression that she was being taken to her village unmindful of the preplanned unholy designs of the appellant.	None
The victim was a totally helpless child there being no one to protect her in the desert where she was taken by the appellant misusing her confidence to fulfil his lust.	None
It appears that the appellant had preplanned to commit the crime by resorting to diabolical methods and it was with that object that he took the girl to a lonely place to execute his dastardly act.	None
After so stating, the Court, while affirming the death sentence, opined that The victim of the age of Nitma could not have even ever resisted the act with which she was subjected to.	None
The appellant seems to have acted in a beastly manner as after satisfying his lust he thought that the victim might expose him for the commission of the offence of forcible rape on her to the family members and others, the appellant with a view to screen the evidence of his crime also put an end to the life of innocent girl who had seen only seven summers.	None
The evidence on record is indicative of the fact as to how diabolically the appellant had conceived of his plan and brutally executed it and such a calculated, coldblooded and brutal murder of a girl of a very tender age after committing rape on her would undoubtedly fall in the category of rarest of the rare cases attracting no punishment other than the capital punishment and consequently we confirm the sentence of death imposed upon the appellant for the offence under Section 302 of the Penal Code.	None
Kamta Tiwari (supra) is a case where the appellant was convicted for the offences punishable under Sections 363, 376, 302 and 201 of IPC and sentenced to death by the learned trial Judge and the same was affirmed by the High Court.	None
In appeal, the twoJudge Bench referred to the propositions culled out in Machhi Singh (supra) and expressed thus Taking an overall view of all the facts and circumstances of the instant case in the light of the above propositions we are of the firm opinion that the sentence of death should be maintained.	None
In vain we have searched for mitigating circumstances  but found aggravating circumstances aplenty.	None
The evidence on record clearly establishes that the appellant was close to the family of Parmeshwar and the deceased and her siblings used to call him Tiwari Uncle.	None
Obviously her closeness with the appellant encouraged her to go to his shop, which was near the saloon where she had gone for a haircut with her father and brother, and ask for some biscuits.	None
The appellant readily responded to the request by taking her to the nearby grocery shop of Budhsen and handing over a packet of biscuits apparently as a prelude to his sinister design which unfolded in her kidnapping, brutal rape and gruesome murder  as the numerous injuries on her person testify and the finale was the dumping of her dead body in a well.	None
When an innocent hapless girl of 7 years was subjected to such barbaric treatment by a person who was in a position of her trust his culpability assumes the proportion of extreme depravity and arouses a sense of revulsion in the mind of the common man.	None
In fine, the motivation of the perpetrator, the vulnerability of the victim, the enormity of the crime, the execution thereof persuade us to hold that this is a rarest of rare cases where the sentence of death is eminently desirable not only to deter others from committing such atrocious crimes but also to give emphatic expression to societys abhorrence of such crimes.	None
In Bantu v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (2008) 11 SCC 113 a five year old minor girl was raped and murdered and the appellant was awarded death sentence by the trial Court which was affirmed by the High Court.	None
This Court found the appellant guilty of the crime and, thereafter, referred to the principles stated in Bachan Singh, Machhi Singh (supra) and Devender Pal Singh v. State of A.P., (2002) 5 SCC 234 and eventually came to hold that the said case fell in the rarest of the rare category and the capital punishment was warranted.	None
Being of this view, the Court declined to interfere with the sentence.	None
In Rajendra Pralhadrao Wasnik v. State of Maharashtra, (2012) 4 SCC 37 the appellant was awarded sentence of death by the learned trial Judge which was confirmed by the High Court, for he was found guilty of the offences punishable under Sections 376(2)(f), 377 and 302 IPC.	None
In the said case, the prosecution had proven that the appellant had lured a three year old minor girl child on the pretext of buying her biscuits and then raped her and eventually, being apprehensive of being identified, killed her.	None
In that context, while dismissing the appeal, the Court ruled thus When the Court draws a balance sheet of the aggravating and mitigating circumstances, for the purposes of determining whether the extreme sentence of death should be imposed upon the accused or not, the scale of justice only tilts against the accused as there is nothing but aggravating circumstances evident from the record of the Court.	None
In fact, one has to really struggle to find out if there were any mitigating circumstances favouring the accused.38.	None
Another aspect of the matter is that the minor child was helpless in the cruel hands of the accused.	None
The accused was holding the child in a relationship of trustbelief and confidence, in which capacity he took the child from the house of PW 2.	None
In other words, the accused, by his conduct, has belied the human relationship of trust and worthiness.	None
The accused left the deceased in a badly injured condition in the open fields without even clothes.	None
This reflects the most unfortunate and abusive facet of human conduct, for which the accused has to blame no one else than his own self.	None
At this stage, it is fruitful to refer to some authorities where in cases of rape and murder, the death penalty was not awarded.	None
In State of T.N. v. Suresh and another, (1998) 2 SCC 372 , the Court, while unsettling the judgment of acquittal recorded by the High Court and finding that the accused was guilty of rape of a pregnant woman and also murder, awarded the sentence of life imprisonment by observing The above discussion takes us to the final conclusion that the High Court has seriously erred in upsetting the conviction entered by the Sessions Court as against A2 and A3.	None
The erroneous approach has resulted in miscarriage of justice by allowing the two perpetrators of a dastardly crime committed against a helpless young pregnant housewife who was sleeping in her own apartment with her little baby sleeping by her side and during the absence of her husband.	None
We strongly feel that the error committed by the High Court must be undone by restoring the conviction passed against A2 and A3, though we are not inclined, at this distance of time, to restore the sentence of death passed by the trial court on those two accused.	None
From the aforesaid authority, it is seen that the Court did not think it appropriate to restore the death sentence passed by the trial court regard being had to the passage of time.	None
In Akhtar v. State of U.P. (supra), the appellant was found guilty of murder of a young girl after committing rape on her and was sentenced to death by the learned Sessions Judge and the said sentence was confirmed by the High Court.	None
The twoJudge Bench referred to the decisions in Laxman Naik (supra) and Kamta Tiwari (supra) and addressed itself whether the case in hand was one of the rarest of the rare case for which punishment of death could be awarded.	None
The Court distinguished the two decisions which have been referred to hereinabove and ruled In the case in hand on examining the evidence of the three witnesses it appears to us that the accusedappellant has committed the murder of the deceased girl not intentionally and with any premeditation.	None
On the other hand the accusedappellant found a young girl alone in a lonely place, picked her up for committing rape while committing rape and in the process by way of gagging the girl has died.	None
The medical evidence also indicates that the death is on account of asphyxia.	None
In the circumstances we are of the considered opinion that the case in hand cannot be held to be one of the rarest of rare cases justifying the punishment of death.	None
In State of Maharashtra v. Barat Fakira Dhiwar, (2002) 1 SCC 622 , a threeyear old girl was raped and murdered by the accused.	None
The learned trial Judge convicted the accused and awarded the death sentence.	None
The High Court had set aside the order of conviction and acquitted him for the offences.	None
This Court, on scrutiny of the evidence, found the accused guilty of rape and murder.	None
Thereafter, the Court proceeded to deal with the sentence and, in that context, observed Regarding sentence we would have concurred with the Sessions Courts view that the extreme penalty of death can be chosen for such a crime.	None
However, as the accused was once acquitted by the High Court we refrain from imposing that extreme penalty in spite of the fact that this case is perilously near the region of rarest of the rare cases, as envisaged by the Constitution Bench in Bachan Singh v. State of Punjab.	None
However, the lesser option is not unquestionably foreclosed and so we alter the sentence, in regard to the offence under Section 302 IPC, to imprisonment for life.	None
Keeping in view the aforesaid authorities, the Court, in Vasanta Sampat Dupare v. State of Maharashtra, (2015) 1 SCC 253 , proceeded to adumbrate what is the duty of the Court when the collective conscience is shocked because of the crime committed and observed When the crime is diabolical in nature and invites abhorrence of the collective, it shocks the judicial conscience and impels it to react keeping in view the collective conscience, cry of the community for justice and the intense indignation the manner in which the brutal crime is committed.	None
We are absolutely conscious that Judges while imposing sentence, should never be swayed away with any kind of individual philosophy and predilections.	None
It should never have the flavour of Judgecentric attitude or perception.	None
It has to satisfy the test laid down in various precedents relating to rarest of the rare case.	None
We are also required to pose two questions that has been stated in Machhi Singhs case.	None
In the said case, the Court dwelt upon the manner in which the crime was committed and how a minor girl had become a prey of the sexual depravity and was injured by the despicable act of the accused to silence the voice so that there would be no evidence.	None
Dealing with the same, the Court referred to earlier judgments and held Presently, we shall proceed to dwell upon the manner in which the crime was committed.	None
Materials on record clearly reveal that the appellant was well acquainted with the inhabitants of the locality and as is demonstrable he had access to the house of the father of the deceased and the children used to call him uncle.	None
He had lured the deceased to go with him to have chocolates.	None
It is an act of taking advantage of absolute innocence.	None
He had taken the deceased from place to place by his bicycle and eventually raped her in a brutal manner, as if he had an insatiable and ravenous appetite.	None
The injuries caused on the minor girl are likely to send a chill in the spine of the society and shiver in the marrows of human conscience.	None
He had battered her to death by assaulting her with two heavy stones.	None
The injured minor girl could not have shown any kind of resistance.	None
It is not a case where the accused had a momentary lapse.	None
It is also not a case where the minor child had died because of profuse bleeding due to rape but because of the deliberate cruel assault by the appellant.	None
After the savage act was over, the coolness of the appellant is evident, for he washed the clothes on the tap and took proper care to hide things.	None
As is manifest, he even did not think for a moment the trauma and torture that was caused to the deceased.	None
The gullibility and vulnerability of the four year girl, who could not have nurtured any idea about the maladroitly designed biological desires of this nature, went with the uncle who extinguished her lifespark.	None
The barbaric act of the appellant does not remotely show any concern for the precious life of a young minor child who had really not seen life.	None
The criminality of the conduct of the appellant is not only depraved and debased, but can have a menacing effect on the society.	None
It is calamitous.59.	None
In this context, we may fruitfully refer to a passage from Shyam Narain v. State (NCT of Delhi), (2013) 7 SCC 77 , wherein it has been observed as follows1.	None
The wanton lust, vicious appetite, depravity of senses, mortgage of mind to the inferior endowments of nature, the servility to the loathsome beast of passion and absolutely unchained carnal desire have driven the appellant to commit a crime which can bring in a tsunami of shock in the mind of the collective, send a chill down the spine of the society, destroy the civilised stems of the milieu and comatose the marrows of sensitive polity.	None
In the said case, while describing the rape on an eightyearold girl, the Court observed (Shyam Narain case, SCC p. 88, para 26)26.	None
Almost for the last three decades, this Court has been expressing its agony and distress pertaining to the increased rate of crimes against women.	None
The eightyearold girl, who was supposed to spend time in cheerfulness, was dealt with animal passion and her dignity and purity of physical frame was shattered.	None
The plight of the child and the shock suffered by her can be well visualised.	None
The torment on the child has the potentiality to corrode the poise and equanimity of any civilised society.	None
The ageold wise saying that child is a gift of the providence enters into the realm of absurdity.	None
The young girl, with efflux of time, would grow with a traumatic experience, an unforgettable shame.	None
She shall always be haunted by the memory replete with heavy crush of disaster constantly echoing the chill air of the past forcing her to a state of nightmarish melancholia.	None
She may not be able to assert the honour of a woman for no fault of hers.	None
Elucidating further, the Court held60.	None
In the case at hand, as we find, not only was the rape committed in a brutal manner but murder was also committed in a barbaric manner.	None
The rape of a minor girl child is nothing but a monstrous burial of her dignity in the darkness.	None
It is a crime against the holy body of a girl child and the soul of society and such a crime is aggravated by the manner in which it has been committed.	None
The nature of the crime and the manner in which it has been committed speaks about its uncommonness.	None
The crime speaks of depravity, degradation and uncommonality.	None
It is diabolical and barbaric.	None
The crime was committed in an inhuman manner.	None
Indubitably, these go a long way to establish the aggravating circumstances.61.	None
We are absolutely conscious that mitigating circumstances are to be taken into consideration.	None
The learned counsel for the appellant pointing out the mitigating circumstances would submit that the appellant is in his midfifties and there is possibility of his reformation.	None
Be it noted, the appellant was aged about fortyseven years at the time of commission of the crime.	None
As is noticeable, there has been no remorse on the part of the appellant.	None
There are cases when this Court has commuted the death sentence to life finding that the accused has expressed remorse or the crime was not premeditated.	None
But the obtaining factual matrix when unfolded stage by stage would show the premeditation, the proclivity and the rapacious desire.	None
The learned counsel would submit that the appellant had no criminal antecedents but we find that he was a historysheeter and had a number of cases pending against him.	None
That alone may not be sufficient.	None
The appalling cruelty shown by him to the minor girl child is extremely shocking and it gets accentuated, when his age is taken into consideration.	None
It was not committed under any mental stress or emotional disturbance and it is difficult to comprehend that he would not commit such acts and would be reformed or rehabilitated.	None
As the circumstances would graphically depict, he would remain a menace to society, for a defenceless child has become his prey.	None
In our considered opinion, there are no mitigating circumstances.62.	None
As we perceive, this case deserves to fall in the category of the rarest of rare cases.	None
It is inconceivable from the perspective of the society that a married man aged about two scores and seven makes a fouryear minor innocent girl child the prey of his lust and deliberately causes her death.	None
A helpless and defenceless child gets raped and murdered because of the acquaintance of the appellant with the people of the society.	None
This is not only betrayal of an individual trust but destruction and devastation of social trust.	None
It is perversity in its enormity.	None
It irrefragably invites the extreme abhorrence and indignation of the collective.	None
It is an anathema to the social balance.	None
In our view, it meets the test of the rarest of the rare case and we unhesitatingly so hold.	None
In the said case, a review petition bearing Review Petition (Criminal) Nos. 637638 of 2015 was filed which has been recently dismissed.	None
U.U. Lalit, J., authoring the judgment, has held It is thus well settled, the Court would consider the cumulative effect of both the aspects (namely aggravating factors as well as mitigating circumstances) and it may not be very appropriate for the Court to decide the most significant aspect of sentencing policy with reference to one of the classes completely ignoring other classes under other heads and it is the primary duty of the Court to balance the two.	None
Further, it is always preferred not to fetter the judicial discretion by attempting to make excessive enumeration, in one way or another and that both aspects namely aggravating and mitigating circumstances have to be given their respective weightage and that the Court has to strike the balance between the two and see towards which side the scale balance of justice tilts.	None
With these principles in mind we now consider the present review petition.20.	None
The material placed on record shows that after the Judgment under review, the petitioner has completed Bachelors Preparatory Programme offered by the Indira Gandhi National Open University enabling him to prepare for Bachelor level study and that he has also completed the Gandhi Vichar Pariksha and had participated in drawing competition organized sometime in January 2016.	None
It is asserted that the jail record of the petitioner is without any blemish.	None
The matter is not contested as regards Conditions 1, 2, 5, 6 and 7 as stated in paragraph 206 of the decision in Bachan Singh but what is now being projected is that there is a possibility of the accused being reformed and rehabilitated.	None
Though these attempts on part of the petitioner are after the judgment under review, we have considered the material in that behalf to see if those circumstances warrant a different view.	None
We have given anxious consideration to the material on record but find that the aggravating circumstances namely the extreme depravity and the barbaric manner in which the crime was committed and the fact that the victim was a helpless girl of four years clearly outweigh the mitigating circumstances now brought on record.	None
Having taken an overall view of the matter, in our considered view, no case is made out to take a different view in the matter.	None
We, therefore, affirm the view taken in the Judgment under review and dismiss the present Review Petition.	None
The mitigating factors which have been highlighted before us on the basis of the affidavits filed by the appellants pertain to the strata to which they belong, the aged parents, marital status and the young children and the suffering they would go through and the calamities they would face in case of affirmation of sentence, their conduct while they are in custody and the reformative path they have chosen and their transformation and the possibility of reformation.	None
That apart, emphasis has been laid on their young age and rehabilitation.	None
Now, we shall focus on the nature of the crime and manner in which it has been commited.	None
The submission of Mr. Luthra, learned senior counsel, is that the present case amounts to devastation of social trust and completely destroys the collective balance and invites the indignation of the society.	None
It is submitted by him that that a crime of this nature creates a fear psychosis and definitely falls in the category of rarest of the rare cases.	None
It is necessary to state here that in the instant case, the brutal, barbaric and diabolic nature of the crime is evincible from the acts committed by the accused persons, viz., the assault on the informant, PW1 with iron rod and tearing off his clothes assaulting the informant and the deceased with hands, kicks and iron rod and robbing them of their personal belongings like debit cards, ring, informants shoes, etc. attacking the deceased by forcibly disrobing her and committing violent sexual assault by all the appellants their brutish behaviour in having anal sex with the deceased and forcing her to perform oral sex injuries on the body of the deceased by way of bite marks (10 in number) and insertion of rod in her private parts that, inter alia, caused perforation of her intestine which caused sepsis and, ultimately, led to her death.	None
The medical history of the prosecutrix (as proved in the record in Ex.	None
PW50/A and Ex.	None
PW50) demonstrates that the entire intestine of the prosecutrix was perforated and splayed open due to the repeated insertion of the rod and hands and the appellants had pulled out the internal organs of the prosecutrix in the most savage and inhuman manner that caused grave injuries which ultimately annihilated her life.	None
As has been established, the prosecutrix sustained various bite marks which were observed on her face, lips, jaws, near ear, on the right and left breast, left upper arm, right lower limb, right inner groin, right lower thigh, left thigh lateral, left lower anterior and genitals.	None
These acts itself demonstrate the mental perversion and inconceivable brutality as caused by the appellants.	None
As further proven, they threw the informant and the deceased victim on the road in a cold winter night.	None
After throwing the informant and the deceased victim, the convicts tried to run the bus over them so that there would be no evidence against them.	None
They made all possible efforts in destroying the evidence by, inter alia, washing the bus and burning the clothes of the deceased and after performing the gruesome act, they divided the loot among themselves.	None
As we have narrated the incident that has been corroborated by the medical evidence, oral testimony and the dying declarations, it is absolutely obvious that the accused persons had found an object for enjoyment in her and, as is evident, they were obsessed with the singular purpose sans any feeling to ravish her as they liked, treat her as they felt and, if we allow ourselves to say, the gross sadistic and beastly instinctual pleasures came to the forefront when they, after ravishing her, thought it to be just a matter of routine to throw her alongwith her friend out of the bus and crush them.	None
The casual manner with which she was treated and the devilish manner in which they played with her identity and dignity is humanly inconceivable.	None
It sounds like a story from a different world where humanity has been treated with irreverence.	None
The appetite for sex, the hunger for violence, the position of the empowered and the attitude of perversity, to say the least, are bound to shock the collective conscience which knows not what to do.	None
It is manifest that the wanton lust, the servility to absolutely unchained carnal desire and slavery to the loathsome beastility of passion ruled the mindset of the appellants to commit a crime which can summon with immediacy tsunami of shock in the mind of the collective and destroy the civilised marrows of the milieu in entirety.357.	None
When we cautiously, consciously and anxiously weigh the aggravating circumstances and the mitigating factors, we are compelled to arrive at the singular conclusion that the aggravating circumstances outweigh the mitigating circumstances now brought on record.	Decision
Therefore, we conclude and hold that the High Court has correctly confirmed the death penalty and we see no reason to differ with the same.	Decision
Before we part with the case, we are obligated to record our unreserved appreciation for the assistance rendered by Mr. Raju Ramachandran and Mr. Sanjay R. Hegde, learned amicus curiae appointed by the Court.	None
We must also record our uninhibited appreciation for Mr. M.L. Sharma and Mr. A.P. Singh, learned counsel for the appellants, for they, keeping the tradition of the Bar, defended the appellants at every stage.	None
In view of our preceding analysis, the appeals are bound to pave the path of dismissal, and accordingly, we so direct.	Decision
R. Banumathi, J. I have gone through the judgment of my esteemed Brother Justice Dipak Misra.	None
I entirely agree with the reasoning adopted by him and the conclusions arrived at.	None
However, in view of the significant issues involved in the matter, in the light of settled norms of appreciation of evidence in rape cases and the role of Judiciary in addressing crime against women, I would prefer to give my additional reasoning for concurrence.	None
Honesty, pride, and selfesteem are crucial to the personal freedom of a woman.	None
Social progress depends on the progress of everyone.	None
Following words of the father of our nation must be noted at all times To call woman the weaker sex is a libel it is mans injustice to woman.	None
If by strength is meant moral power, then woman is immeasurably mans superior.	None
Has she not greater intuition, is she not more selfsacrificing, has she not greater powers of endurance, has she not greater courage?	None
Without her, man could not be.	None
If nonviolence is the law of our being, the future is with woman.	None
Who can make a more effective appeal to the heart than woman?	None
Crimes against women  an area of concern Over the past few decades, legal advancements and policy reforms have done much to protect women from all sources of violence and also to sensitize the public on the issue of protection of women and gender justice.	None
Still, the crimes against women are on the increase.	None
As per the annual report of National Crime Records Bureau titled, Crime in India 2015 available at http ncrb.nic.in StatePublications CII CII2015/FILES Compendium  15.11.16.pdf, a total of 3,27,394 cases of crime against women were reported in the year 2015, which shows an increase of over 43 in crime against women since 2011, when 2,28,650 cases were reported.	None
A percentage change of 110.5 in the cases of crime against women has been witnessed over the past decade (2005 to 2015), meaning thereby that crime against women has more than doubled in a decade.	None
An overall crime rate under the head, crime against women was reported as 53.9 in 2015, with Delhi UT at the top spot.	None
As per the National Crime Records Bureau, a total of 34,651 cases of rape under Section 376 IPC were registered during 2015 (excluding cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012).	None
An increasing trend in the incidence of rape has been observed during the period 20112014.	None
These cases have shown an increase of 9.2 in the year 2011 (24,206 cases) over the year 2010 (22,172 cases), an increase of 3.0 in the year 2012 (24,923 cases) over 2011, with further increase of 35.2 in the year 2013 (33,707 cases) over 2012 and 9.0 in 2014 (36,735 cases) over 2013.	None
A decrease of 5.7 was reported in 2015 (34,651 cases) over 2014 (36,735 cases).	None
12.7 (4,391 out of 34,651 cases) of total reported rape cases in 2015 were reported in Madhya Pradesh followed by Maharashtra (4,144 cases), Rajasthan (3,644 cases), Uttar Pradesh (3,025 cases) and Odisha (2,251 cases) accounting for 11.9, 10.5, 8.7 and 6.5 of total cases respectively.	None
NCT of Delhi reported highest crime rate of 23.7 followed by Andaman Nicobar Islands at 13.5 as compared to national average of 5.7.	None
In order to combat increasing crime against women, as depicted in the statistics of National Crime Records Bureau, the root of the problem must be studied in depth and the same be remedied through stringent legislation and other steps.	None
In order to secure social order and security, it is imperative to address issues concerning women, in particular crimes against women on priority basis.	None
Stringent legislation and punishments alone may not be sufficient for fighting increasing crimes against women.	None
In our tradition bound society, certain attitudinal change and change in the mindset is needed to respect women and to ensure gender justice.	None
Right from childhood years children ought to be sensitized to respect women.	None
A child should be taught to respect women in the society in the same way as he is taught to respect men.	None
Gender equality should be made a part of the school curriculum.	None
The school teachers and parents should be trained, not only to conduct regular personality building and skill enhancing exercise, but also to keep a watch on the actual behavioural pattern of the children so as to make them gender sensitized.	None
The educational institutions, Government institutions, the employers and all concerned must take steps to create awareness with regard to gender sensitization and to respect women.	None
Sensitization of the public on gender justice through TV, media and press should be welcomed.	None
On the practical side, few of the suggestions are worthwhile to be considered.	None
Banners and placards in the public transport vehicles like autos, taxis and buses etc. must be ensured.	None
Use of street lights, illuminated bus stops and extra police patrol during odd hours must be ensured.	None
Police security guards must be posted at dark and lonely places like parks, streets etc.	None
Mobile apps for immediate assistance of women should be introduced and effectively maintained.	None
Apart from effective implementation of the various legislation protecting women, change in the mind set of the society at large and creating awareness in the public on gender justice, would go a long way to combat violence against women.	None
Factual Matrix	None
The entire factual matrix of the concerned horrendous incident has already been fairly set out in the judgment of my esteemed brother Justice Dipak Misra, the High Court and the trial Court.	None
Suffice only to briefly recapitulate the facts, for my reference purpose and for completion.	None
In the wintry night of 16.12.2012, when the entire Delhi was busy in its daytoday affair, embracing the joy of yearend, two youths were bravely struggling to save their dignity and life.	None
It is a case of barbaric sexual violence against women, in fact against the society at large, where the accused and juvenile in conflict with law picked up a 23 year old physiotherapy student and her male friend (PW1) accompanying her, from a busy place in DelhiMunirka Bus stop and subjected them to heinous offences.	None
The accused gangraped the prosecutrix in the moving bus and completely ravished her in front of her helpless friend, Awninder Pratap (PW1).	None
The accused, on satisfaction of their lust, threw both the victims, half naked, outside the bus, in December cold near Mahipalpur flyover.	None
The prosecutrix and PW1 were noticed in miserable condition near Mahipalpur flyover, where they were thrown, by PW72 Raj Kumar, who was on patrolling duty that night in the area and PW73 Ram Chandar, Head Constable, rushed the prosecutrix and PW1 to Safdarjung Hospital owing to the need of immediate medical attention.	None
Law was set in motion by the statement of PW1, which was recorded after giving primary medical treatment to him.	None
Statement Dying declaration of the prosecutrix was also recorded by PW49 Doctor, PW27 SubDivisional Magistrate and PW30 Metropolitan Magistrate.	None
After intensive care and treatment in ICU in Delhi, the victim was airlifted to a hospital in Singapore by an airambulance where she succumbed to her injuries on 29.12.2012.	None
The incident shocked the nation and generated public rage.	None
A Committee headed by Justice J.S. Verma, Former Chief Justice of India was constituted to suggest amendments to deal with sexual offences more sternly and effectively in future.	None
The suggestions of the Committee led to the enactment of Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013 which, inter alia, brought in substantive as well as procedural reforms in the core areas of rape law.	None
The changes brought in, inter alia, can broadly be titled as under (i) Extension of the definition of the offence of rape in Section 375 IPC (ii) Adoption of a more pragmatic approach while dealing with the issue of consent in the offence of rape and (iii) Introduction of harsher penalty commensurating with the gravity of offence.	None
These subsequent events though not relevant for the purpose of this judgment, I have referred to it for the sake of factual completion.	None
Both the courts below, by recording concurrent findings, have found all the accused guilty of the offences they were charged with and owing to the gravity and manner of committing the heinous offences held that the acts of the accused shake the conscience of the society falling within the category of rarest of rare cases and awarded death penalty.	None
Briefly put, the courts below have found that the prosecution has established the guilt of the accused inter alia on the following Three dying declarations of the prosecutrix, complementing each other, corroborated by medical evidence and other direct as well as circumstantial evidence.2.	None
Testimony of eye witness  PW1, corroborated by circumstantial evidence as well as scientific evidence.3.	None
Recovery of the bus in which incident took place and recovery of the concerned iron rod therefrom, completing the chain of circumstantial evidence, by proof of scientific evidence like DNA analysis, finger print analysis etc.4.	None
Arrest of the accused and their identification by PW1, recovery of articles belonging to the prosecutrix and PW1 from the accused, pursuant to their disclosure statement, substantiated by proof of DNA analysis.5.	None
Conspiracy of the accused in the commission of offence.	None
While concurring with the majority, I have recorded my reasoning by considering the evidence on record in the light of settled legal principles and also analysed the justifiability of the punishment awarded to the accused.	None
For proper appreciation of evidence, it is apposite to first refer to the settled principles and norms of appreciation of evidence of prosecutrix and other evidence in a rape case.	None
Duty of court in appreciation of evidence while dealing with cases of rape Crime against women is an unlawful intrusion of her right to privacy, which offends her selfesteem and dignity.	None
Expressing concern over the increasing crime against women, in State of Punjab v. Gurmit Singh and Others (1996) 2 SCC 384 , this Court held as under Of late, crime against women in general and rape in particular is on the increase.	None
It is an irony that while we are celebrating womans rights in all spheres, we show little or no concern for her honour.	None
It is a sad reflection on the attitude of indifference of the society towards the violation of human dignity of the victims of sex crimes.	None
We must remember that a rapist not only violates the victims privacy and personal integrity, but inevitably causes serious psychological as well as physical harm in the process.	None
Rape is not merely a physical assault  it is often destructive of the whole personality of the victim.	None
A murderer destroys the physical body of his victim, a rapist degrades the very soul of the helpless female.	None
The courts, therefore, shoulder a great responsibility while trying an accused on charges of rape.	None
They must deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity.	None
The courts should examine the broader probabilities of a case and not get swayed by minor contradictions or insignificant discrepancies in the statement of the prosecutrix, which are not of a fatal nature, to throw out an otherwise reliable prosecution caseEmphasis supplied The above principle of law, declared in Gurmeet Singhs case is reiterated in various cases viz., State of Rajasthan v. N.K.	None
The Accused (2000) 5 SCC 30 State of H.P. v. Lekh Raj and Another (2000) 1 SCC 247 State of H.P. v. Asha Ram (2005) 13 SCC 766.	None
Clause (g) of subsection (2) of Section 376	None
IPC (prior to 2013 Amendment Act 13 of 2013) deals with cases of gang rape.	None
In order to establish an offence under Section 376(2)(g) IPC, read with Explanation I thereto, the prosecution must adduce evidence to indicate that more than one accused had acted in concert and in such an event, if rape is committed by even one, all the accused are guilty, irrespective of the fact that only one or more of them had actually committed the act.	None
Section 376(2)(g) read with Explanation I thus embodies a principle of joint liability.	None
But so far as appreciation of evidence is concerned, the principles concerning the cases falling under subsection(1) of Section 376 IPC apply.	None
In a case of rape, like other criminal cases, onus is always on the prosecution to prove affirmatively each ingredients of the offence.	None
The prosecution must discharge this burden of proof to bring home the guilt of the accused and this onus never shifts.	None
In Narender Kumar v. State (NCT of Delhi) (2012) 7 SCC 171 , it was held as under However, even in a case of rape, the onus is always on the prosecution to prove, affirmatively each ingredient of the offence it seeks to establish and such onus never shifts.	None
It is no part of the duty of the defence to explain as to how and why in a rape case the victim and other witnesses have falsely implicated the accused.	None
The prosecution case has to stand on its own legs and cannot take support from the weakness of the case of defence.	None
There is an initial presumption of innocence of the accused and the prosecution has to bring home the offence against the accused by reliable evidence.	None
The accused is entitled to the benefit of every reasonable doubt.	None
At the same time while dealing with cases of rape, the Court must act with utmost sensitivity and appreciate the evidence of prosecutrix in lieu of settled legal principles.	None
Courts while trying an accused on the charge of rape, must deal with the case with utmost sensitivity, examining the broader probabilities of a case and it should not be swayed by minor contradictions and discrepancies in appreciation of evidence of the witnesses which are not of a substantial character.	None
It is now wellsettled that conviction for an offence of rape can be based on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix corroborated by medical evidence and other circumstantial evidence such as the report of chemical examination, scientific examination etc., if the same is found natural and trustworthy.	None
Persisting notion that the testimony of victim has to be corroborated by other evidence must be removed.	None
To equate a rape victim to an accomplice is to add insult to womanhood.	None
Ours is a conservative society and not a permissive society.	None
Ordinarily a woman, more so, a young woman will not stake her reputation by levelling a false charge, concerning her chastity.	None
In State of Karnataka v. Krishnappa, (2000) 4 SCC 75 , it was held as under Sexual violence apart from being a dehumanising act is an unlawful intrusion of the right to privacy and sanctity of a female.	None
It is a serious blow to her supreme honour and offends her selfesteem and dignity  it degrades and humiliates the victim and where the victim is a helpless innocent child, it leaves behind a traumatic experience.	None
The courts are, therefore, expected to deal with cases of sexual crime against women with utmost sensitivity.	None
Such cases need to be dealt with sternly and severely16.A socially sensitised Judge, in our opinion, is a better statutory armour in cases of crime against women than long clauses of penal provisions, containing complex exceptions and provisos.emphasis supplied There is no legal compulsion to look for corroboration of the prosecutrixs testimony unless the evidence of the victim suffers from serious infirmities, thereby seeking corroboration.	None
In Bharwada Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai v. State of Gujarat, (1983) 3 SCC 217 , it was held as under In the Indian setting, refusal to act on the testimony of a victim of sexual assault in the absence of corroboration as a rule, is adding insult to injury.	None
Why should the evidence of the girl or the woman who complains of rape or sexual molestation be viewed with the aid of spectacles fitted with lenses tinged with doubt, disbelief or suspicion?	None
To do so is to justify the charge of male chauvinism in a male dominated society.	None
We must analyze the argument in support of the need for corroboration and subject it to relentless and remorseless crossexamination.	None
And we must do so with a logical, and not an opinionated, eye in the light of probabilities with our feet firmly planted on the soil of India and with our eyes focussed on the Indian horizon.	None
We must not be swept off the feet by the approach made in the western world which has its own social milieu, its own social mores, its own permissive values, and its own code of life.	None
Corroboration may be considered essential to establish a sexual offence in the backdrop of the social ecology of the western world.	None
It is wholly unnecessary to import the said concept on a turnkey basis and to transplant it on the Indian soil regardless of the altogether different atmosphere, attitudes, mores, responses of the Indian society, and its profile.	None
The identities of the two worlds are different.	None
10.By and large these factors are not relevant to India, and the Indian conditions.	None
Without the fear of making too wide a statement, or of overstating the case, it can be said that rarely will a girl or a woman in India make false allegations of sexual assault on account of any such factor as has been just enlisted.	None
The statement is generally true in the context of the urban as also rural society.	None
It is also by and large true in the context of the sophisticated, not so sophisticated, and unsophisticated society.	None
Only very rarely can one conceivably come across an exception or two and that too possibly from amongst the urban elites.	None
Because (1) A girl or a woman in the traditionbound nonpermissive society of India would be extremely reluctant even to admit that any incident which is likely to reflect on her chastity had ever occurred.	None
(2) She would be conscious of the danger of being ostracized by the society or being looked down by the society including by her own family members, relatives, friends, and neighbours.	None
(3) She would have to brave the whole world.	None
(4) 11	None
On principle the evidence of a victim of sexual assault stands on par with evidence of an injured witness.	None
Just as a witness who has sustained an injury (which is not shown or believed to be selfinflicted) is the best witness in the sense that he is least likely to exculpate the real offender, the evidence of a victim of a sex offence is entitled to great weight, absence of corroboration notwithstanding.	None
And while corroboration in the form of eyewitness account of an independent witness may often be forthcoming in physical assault cases, such evidence cannot be expected in sex offences, having regard to the very nature of the offence.	None
emphasis supplied It was further held in Bharwada Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai (supra) that if the evidence of the victim does not suffer from any basic infirmity and the probabilitiesfactor does not render it unworthy of credence, there is no reason to insist on corroboration except corroboration by the medical evidence.	None
The same view was taken in Krishan Lal v. State of Haryana (1980) 3 SCC 159.	None
It is wellsettled that conviction can be based on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix if it is implicitly reliable and there is a ring of truth in it.	None
Corroboration as a condition for judicial reliance on the testimony of a prosecutrix is not requirement of law but a guidance of prudence under given circumstances.	None
In Rajinder alias Raju v. State of Himachal Pradesh, (2009) 16 SCC 69 , it was held as under In the context of Indian culture, a womanvictim of sexual aggressionwould rather suffer silently than to falsely implicate somebody.	None
Any statement of rape is an extremely humiliating experience for a woman and until she is a victim of sex crime, she would not blame anyone but the real culprit.	None
While appreciating the evidence of the prosecutrix, the courts must always keep in mind that no selfrespecting woman would put her honour at stake by falsely alleging commission of rape on her and therefore, ordinarily a look for corroboration of her testimony is unnecessary and uncalled for.	None
But for high improbability in the prosecution case, the conviction in the case of sex crime may be based on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix.	None
It has been rightly said that corroborative evidence is not an imperative component of judicial credence in every case of rape nor the absence of injuries on the private parts of the victim can be construed as evidence of consent.	None
In Raju and Others v. State of Madhya Pradesh (2008) 15 SCC 133 , it was held as under 10that ordinarily the evidence of a prosecutrix should not be suspected and should be believed, more so as her statement has to be evaluated on a par with that of an injured witness and if the evidence is reliable, no corroboration is necessary.	None
11.It cannot be lost sight of that rape causes the greatest distress and humiliation to the victim but at the same time a false allegation of rape can cause equal distress, humiliation and damage to the accused as well.	None
The accused must also be protected against the possibility of false implication, particularly where a large number of accused are involved.	None
It must, further, be borne in mind that the broad principle is that an injured witness was present at the time when the incident happened and that ordinarily such a witness would not tell a lie as to the actual assailants, but there is no presumption or any basis for assuming that the statement of such a witness is always correct or without any embellishment or exaggeration.	None
In State of H.P. v. Asha Ram (2005) 13 SCC 766 , this Court highlighted the importance of, and the weight to be attached to, the testimony of the prosecutrix.	None
In para (5), it was held as under 5 It is now a wellsettled principle of law that conviction can be founded on the testimony of the prosecutrix alone unless there are compelling reasons for seeking corroboration.	None
The evidence of a prosecutrix is more reliable than that of an injured witness.	None
The testimony of the victim of sexual assault is vital, unless there are compelling reasons which necessitate looking for corroboration of her statement, the courts should find no difficulty in acting on the testimony of a victim of sexual assault alone to convict an accused where her testimony inspires confidence and is found to be reliable.	None
It is also a wellsettled principle of law that corroboration as a condition for judicial reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix is not a requirement of law but a guidance of prudence under the given circumstances.	None
The evidence of the prosecutrix is more reliable than that of an injured witness.	None
Even minor contradictions or insignificant discrepancies in the statement of the prosecutrix should not be a ground for throwing out an otherwise reliable prosecution case.	None
As held in the case of State of Punjab v. Ramdev Singh (2004) 1 SCC 421 , there is no rule of law that the testimony of the prosecutrix cannot be acted upon without corroboration in material particulars.	None
She stands at a higher pedestal than an injured witness.	None
However, if the Court of facts finds it difficult to accept the version of the prosecutrix on its face value, it may search for evidence, direct or circumstantial, which would lend assurance to her testimony.	None
The above judgment of Ramdev Singh (supra) has been approvingly quoted in State of U.P. v. Munshi (2008) 9 SCC 390.	None
In a catena of decisions, this Court has held that conviction can be based on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix, provided it is natural, trustworthy and worth being relied upon vide State of H.P. v. Gian Chand (2001) 6 SCC 71 , State of Rajasthan v. N.K.	None
The Accused (2000) 5 SCC 30 State of H.P. v. Lekh Raj and Another (2000) 1 SCC 247 , Wahid Khan v. State of Madhya Pradesh (2010) 2 SCC 9 , Dinesh Jaiswal v. State of Madhya Pradesh (2010) 3 SCC 232	None
Om Prakash v. State of Haryana (2011) 14 SCC 309.	None
Observing that once the statement of the prosecutrix inspires confidence, conviction can be based on the solitary evidence of the prosecutrix and that corroboration of testimony of a prosecutrix is not a requirement of law but only a rule of prudence, in Narender Kumars case (supra), this Court held as under It is a settled legal proposition that once the statement of the prosecutrix inspires confidence and is accepted by the court as such, conviction can be based only on the solitary evidence of the prosecutrix and no corroboration would be required unless there are compelling reasons which necessitate the court for corroboration of her statement.	None
Corroboration of testimony of the prosecutrix as a condition for judicial reliance is not a requirement of law but a guidance of prudence under the given facts and circumstances.	None
Minor contradictions or insignificant discrepancies should not be a ground for throwing out an otherwise reliable prosecution case.21.A prosecutrix complaining of having been a victim of the offence of rape is not an accomplice after the crime.	None
Her testimony has to be appreciated on the principle of probabilities just as the testimony of any other witness a high degree of probability having been shown to exist in view of the subjectmatter being a criminal charge.	None
However, if the court finds it difficult to accept the version of the prosecutrix on its face value, it may search for evidence, direct or substantial (sic circumstantial), which may lend assurance to her testimony.	None
(Vide Vimal Suresh Kamble v. Chaluverapinake Apal S.P. (2003) 3 SCC 175 and Vishnu v. State of Maharashtra (2006) 1 SCC 283.)	None
Courts should not attach undue importance to discrepancies, where the contradictions sought to be brought up from the evidence of the prosecutrix are immaterial and of no consequence.	None
Minor variations in the testimony of the witnesses are often the hallmark of truth of the testimony.	None
Trivial discrepancies ought not to obliterate an otherwise acceptable evidence.	None
Due to efflux of time, there are bound to be minor contradictions discrepancies in the statement of the prosecutrix but such minor discrepancies and inconsistencies are only natural since when truth is sought to be projected through human, there are bound to be certain inherent contradictions.	None
But as held in Om Prakash v. State of U.P. (2006) 9 SCC 787 , the Court should examine the broader probabilities of a case.	None
There is no quarrel over the proposition that the evidence of the prosecutrix is to be believed by examining the broader probabilities of a case.	None
But where there are serious infirmities and inherent inconsistencies in evidence the prosecutrix making deliberate improvement on material point with a view to rule out consent on her part, no reliance can be placed upon the testimony of the prosecutrix.	None
In Tameezuddin v. State (NCT of Delhi), (2009) 15 SCC 566 , it was held as under It is true that in a case of rape the evidence of the prosecutrix must be given predominant consideration, but to hold that this evidence has to be accepted even if the story is improbable and belies logic, would be doing violence to the very principles which govern the appreciation of evidence in a criminal matter.	None
We are of the opinion that the story is indeed improbable.	None
The same view was taken in Suresh N. Bhusare v. State of Maharashtra (1999) 1 SCC 220 and Jai Krishna Mandal v. State of Jharkhand (2010) 14 SCC 534.	None
On the anvil of the above principles, let us test the case of prosecution and version of the prosecutrix as depicted in her dying declaration.	None
Dying Declaration Prosecution relies upon three dying declarations of the victim (i) Statement of victim recorded by PW49 Dr. Rashmi Ahuja (Ex. PW49/A) when the victim was brought to Safdarjung Hospital and admitted in the Gynae casualty at about 1115 p.m. on 16.12.2012  the victim gave a brief account of the incident stating that she went to a movie with her friend Awnindra (PW1) and that after the movie, they together boarded the bus from Munirka bus stop in which she was gangraped and that she was thrown away from the moving bus thereafter, along with her friend (ii) Second dying declaration recorded by PW27 Usha Chaturvedi, SDM (Ex.	None
PW27/A) on 21.12.2012 at about 0900 p.m.  	None
the victim gave the details of the entire incident specifying the role of each accused gangrape, unnatural sex committed on her, the injuries inflicted by accused on her vagina and rectum, by use of iron rod and by insertion of hands in her private parts description of the bus, robbery and lastly throwing both the victim and also her boyfriend out of the moving bus in naked condition near Mahipalpur flyover (iii) Third dying declaration recorded by PW30 Pawan Kumar, Metropolitan Magistrate (Ex.PW30/D) on 25.12.2012 at 100 PM at ICU, Safdarjung Hospital by putting questions in multiple choice and recording answers through such questions by gestures or writings  the victim wrote the names of the accused in the third dying declaration.	None
Evidence of PW28 Dr. Rajesh Rastogi and the certificate (Ex.PW28/A) given by him establishes that the victim was in a fit mental condition to give the statement through gestures.	None
Furthermore, PW75 Asha Devi, mother of the victim in her crossexamination also deposed that she had a talk with her daughter on the night of 25.12.2012, which shows that the victim was conscious, communicative and oriented.	None
Contentions urged, assailing the fit mental condition of the victim have no merit.386.	None
With regard to the contention that there were improvements in the dying declarations, I am of he view, the victim was gangraped and iron rod was inserted in her private parts in the incident and the victim must have been pushed to deep emotional crisis.	None
Rape deeply affects the entire psychology of the woman and humiliates her, apart from leaving her in a trauma.	None
The testimony of the rape victim must be appreciated in the background of the entire case and the trauma which the victim had undergone.	None
As a matter of record, PW49 Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, at around 1115 p.m. on the night of 16.12.2012, had attended to the prosecutrix as soon as she was brought to the hospital and had prepared casualty OPD Card of the prosecutrix (Ex. PW49/A), as well as her MLC (Ex. PW49/B).	None
At that time, PW49 had found her cold and clammy due to vasoconstriction.	None
The prosecutrix was found shivering, for which she was administered IV line and warm saline in order to stabilize her pulse and BP.	None
When the victim was in such a condition, the victim cannot be expected to give minute details of the occurrence like overt act played by the accused, insertion of iron rod etc.	None
There is no justification for blowing up such omission out of proportion in the statement recorded by PW49 Dr. Rashmi Ahuja and doubt the same.	None
In the occurrence, physical and emotional balance of the victim must have been greatly disturbed.	None
Startled by the incident, whatever the victim was able to momentarily recollect, she narrated to PW49 and placed in that position nonmention of minute details in Ex.	None
PW49/A cannot be termed as a material omission.	None
Dying declaration is a substantial piece of evidence provided it is not tainted with malice and is not made in an unfit mental state.	None
Each case of dying declaration has to be considered in its own facts and circumstances in which it is made.	None
However, there are some wellknown tests to ascertain as to whether the statement was made in reference to cause of death of its maker and whether the same could be relied upon or not.	None
The Court also has to satisfy as to whether the deceased was in a fit mental state to make the statement.	None
The Court must scrutinize the dying declaration carefully and ensure that the declaration is not the result of tutoring, prompting or imagination.	None
Once the Court is satisfied that the declaration is true and voluntary, it can base its conviction without any further corroboration.	None
It cannot be laid down as an absolute rule of law that the dying declaration cannot form the sole basis of conviction unless it is corroborated.	None
The rule requiring corroboration is merely a rule of prudence.	None
That the deceased had the opportunity to observe and identify the assailants and was in a fit state to make the declaration.	None
K. Ramachandra Reddy and Anr.	None
v. Public Prosecutor (1976)	None
3 SCC 618	None
The principles governing dying declarations have been exhaustively laid down in several judicial pronouncements.	None
In Paniben (Smt.)	None
v. State of Gujarat, (1992)	None
2 SCC 474 , this Court referred to a number of judgments laying down the principles governing dying declaration.	None
In this regard, I find it apposite to quote the following from Paniben (supra) as under Though a dying declaration is entitled to great weight, it is worthwhile to note that the accused has no power of crossexamination.	None
Such a power is essential for eliciting the truth as an obligation of oath could be.	None
This is the reason the Court also insists that the dying declaration should be of such a nature as to inspire full confidence of the Court in its correctness.	None
The Court has to be on guard that the statement of deceased was not as a result of either tutoring, prompting or a product of imagination.	None
The Court must be further satisfied that the deceased was in a fit state of mind after a clear opportunity to observe and identify the assailants.	None
Once the Court is satisfied that the declaration was true and voluntary, undoubtedly, it can base its conviction without any further corroboration.	None
It cannot be laid down as an absolute rule of law that the dying declaration cannot form the sole basis of conviction unless it is corroborated.	None
The rule requiring corroboration is merely a rule of prudence.	None
This Court has laid down in several judgments the principles governing dying declaration, which could be summed up as under(i) There is neither rule of law nor of prudence that dying declaration cannot be acted upon without corroboration.	None
(Munnu Raja v. State of M.P. (1976) 3 SCC 104 )(ii)	None
If the Court is satisfied that the dying declaration is true and voluntary it can base conviction on it, without corroboration.	None
(State of U.P. v. Ram Sagar Yadav (1985) 1 SCC 522 Ramawati Devi v. State of Bihar (1983) 1 SCC 211 ).(iii)	None
This Court has to scrutinise the dying declaration carefully and must ensure that the declaration is not the result of tutoring, prompting or imagination.	None
The deceased had opportunity to observe and identify the assailants and was in a fit state to make the declaration.	None
(K. Ramachandra Reddy v. Public Prosecutor (1976) 3 SCC 618 ).(iv)	None
Where dying declaration is suspicious it should not be acted upon without corroborative evidence.	None
(Rasheed Beg v. State of M.P. (1974) 4 SCC 264 )(v) Where the deceased was unconscious and could never make any dying declaration the evidence with regard to it is to be rejected.	None
(Kake Singh v. State of M.P. (1981) Supp.	None
SCC 25)(vi)	None
A dying declaration which suffers from infirmity cannot form the basis of conviction.	None
(Ram Manorath v. State of U.P. (1981) 2 SCC 654 )(vii) Merely because a dying declaration does not contain the details as to the occurrence, it is not to be rejected.	None
(State of Maharashtra v. Krishnamurti Laxmipati Naidu (1980) Supp.	None
SCC 455)(viii)	None
Equally, merely because it is a brief statement, it is not be discarded.	None
On the contrary, the shortness of the statement itself guarantees truth.	None
Surajdeo Oza v. State of Bihar (1980) Supp.	None
SCC 769) (ix) Normally the court in order to satisfy whether deceased was in a fit mental condition to make the dying declaration look up to the medical opinion.	None
But where the eye witness has said that the deceased was in a fit and conscious state to make this dying declaration, the medical opinion cannot prevail.	None
(Nanahau Ram v. State of M.P. (1988) Supp.	None
SCC 152)(x) Where the prosecution version differs from the version as given in the dying declaration, the said declaration cannot be acted upon.	None
(State of U.P. v. Madan Mohan (1989) 3 SCC 390 )	None
The above wellsettled tests relating to dying declarations and the principles have been elaborately considered in a number of judgments.	None
Vide Khushal Rao v. State of Bombay, AIR 1958 SC 22 State of Uttar Pradesh v. Ram Sagar Yadav, (1985) 1 SCC 552 State of Orissa v. Bansidhar Singh, (1996) 2 SCC 194	None
Panneerselvam v. State of Tamil Nadu (2008) 17 SCC 190 Atbir v. Govt.	None
of NCT of Delhi (2010)	None
9 SCC 1 and Umakant and Anr.	None
v. State of Chhattisgarh (2014)	None
7 SCC 405 .	None
Multiple Dying Declarations	None
In cases where there are more than one dying declarations, the Court should consider whether they are consistent with each other.	None
If there are inconsistencies, the nature of the inconsistencies must be examined as to whether they are material or not.	None
In cases where there are more than one dying declaration, it is the duty of the Court to consider each one of them and satisfy itself as to the voluntariness and reliability of the declarations.	None
Mere fact of recording multiple dying declarations does not take away the importance of each individual declaration.	None
Court has to examine the contents of dying declaration in the light of various surrounding facts and circumstances.	None
This Court in a number of cases, where there were multiple dying declarations, consistent in material particulars not being contradictory to each other, has affirmed the conviction.	None
Vide Vithal v. State of Maharashtra (2006) 13 SCC 54 .	None
In Amol Singh v. State of Madhya Pradesh (2008) 5 SCC 468 , while discarding the two inconsistent dying declarations, laid down the principles for consideration of multiple dying declarations as under Law relating to appreciation of evidence in the form of more than one dying declaration is well settled.	None
Accordingly, it is not the plurality of the dying declarations but the reliability thereof that adds weight to the prosecution case.	None
If a dying declaration is found to be voluntary, reliable and made in fit mental condition, it can be relied upon without any corroboration.	None
The statement should be consistent throughout.	None
If the deceased had several opportunities of making such dying declarations, that is to say, if there are more than one dying declaration they should be consistent.	None
(See Kundula Bala Subrahmanyam v. State of A.P. (1993) 2 SCC 684 )	None
However, if some inconsistencies are noticed between one dying declaration and the other, the court has to examine the nature of the inconsistencies, namely, whether they are material or not.	None
While scrutinising the contents of various dying declarations, in such a situation, the court has to examine the same in the light of the various surrounding facts and circumstances.	None
In Ganpat Mahadeo Mane v. State of Maharashtra (1993) Supp.(2) SCC 242, there were three dying declarations.	None
One recorded by the doctor the second recorded by the police constable and also attested by the doctor and the third dying declaration recorded by the Executive Magistrate which was endorsed by the doctor.	None
Considering the third dying declaration, this Court held that all the three dying declarations were consistent and corroborated by medical evidence and other circumstantial evidence and that they did not suffer from any infirmity.	None
In Lakhan v. State of M.P. (2010) 8 SCC 514 , this Court considered a similar situation where in the first dying declaration given to a police officer was more elaborate and the subsequent dying declaration recorded by the Judicial Magistrate lacked certain information given earlier.	None
After examining the contents of the two dying declarations, this Court held that there was no inconsistency between two dying declarations and nonmention of certain features in the dying declarations recorded by the Judicial Magistrate does not make both the dying declarations inconsistent.	None
In the light of the above principles, I now advert to analyze the facts of the present case.	None
The victim made three dying declarations (i) statement recorded by PW49 Dr. Rashmi Ahuja immediately after the victim was admitted to the hospital (ii) Dying declaration (Ex.PW27/A) recorded by PW27 SDM Usha Chaturvedi on 21.12.2012 and (iii) dying declaration (Ex.PW30/D) recorded by PW30 Pawan Kumar, Metropolitan Magistrate on 25.12.2012 at 100 P.M by multiple choice questions and recording answers by gestures and writing.	None
In the first dying declaration (Ex.PW49/A), the prosecutrix has stated that more than two men committed rape on her, bit her on lips, cheeks and breast and also subjected her to unnatural sex.	None
In the second dying declaration (Ex.PW27/A) recorded by PW27, the victim has narrated the entire incident in great detail, specifying the role of each accused, rape committed by number of persons, insertion of iron rod in her private parts, description of the bus, robbery committed and throwing of both the victims out of the moving bus in naked condition.	None
In the second dying declaration, she has also stated that the accused were addressing each other with the names like, Ram Singh, Thakur, Raju, Mukesh, Pawan and Vinay.	None
In the second dying declaration, though there are improvements in giving details of the incident, names of the accused etc., there are no material contradictions between the first and second dying declaration (Ex.PW49/A and Ex.	None
PW27/A).	None
On 25.12.2012 at 100 P.M, PW30 Pawan Kumar, Metropolitan Magistrate recorded the statement by putting multiple choice questions to the victim and by getting answers through gestures and writing.	None
The third dying declaration (Ex.PW30/D) is found consistent with the earlier two declarations.	None
It conclusively establishes that the victim was brutally gangraped, beaten by iron rod, subjected to other harsh atrocities and was finally dumped at an unknown place.	None
While making the third declaration, the victim also tried to reveal the names of the accused by writing in her own handwriting viz.	None
Ram Singh, Mukesh, Vinay, Akshay, Vipin, Raju.	None
As per the settled law governing dying declarations, even if there are minor discrepancies in the dying declarations, in the facts and circumstances of the case, the Court can disregard the same as insignificant.	None
A threeJudge Bench of this Court in Abrar v. State of Uttar Pradesh (2011) 2 SCC 750 , held that it is practical that minor discrepancies in recording dying declarations may occur due to pain and suffering of the victim, in case the declaration is recorded at multiple intervals and thus, such discrepancies need not be given much emphasis.	None
It is true that there are some discrepancies in the dying declarations with regard to the presence or otherwise of a light or a torch.	None
To our mind, however, these are so insignificant that they call for no discussion.	None
It is also clear from the evidence that the injured had been in great pain and if there were minor discrepancies inter se the three dying declarations, they were to be accepted as something normal.	None
The trial court was thus clearly wrong in rendering a judgment of acquittal solely on this specious ground.	None
We, particularly, notice that the dying declaration had been recorded by the Tahsildar after the doctor had certified the victim as fit to make a statement.	None
The doctor also appeared in the witness box to support the statement of the Tahsildar.	None
We are, therefore, of the opinion, that no fault whatsoever could be found in the dying declarations.	None
When a dying declaration is recorded voluntarily, pursuant to a fitness report of a certified doctor, nothing much remains to be questioned unless, it is proved that the dying declaration was tainted with animosity and a result of tutoring.	None
Especially, when there are multiple dying declarations minor variations does not affect the evidentiary value of other dying declarations whether recorded prior or subsequent thereto.	None
In Ashabai and Anr.	None
v. State of Maharashtra (2013) 2 SCC 224 , it was held as under As rightly observed by the High Court, the law does not insist upon the corroboration of dying declaration before it can be accepted.	None
The insistence of corroboration to a dying declaration is only a rule of prudence.	None
When the Court is satisfied that the dying declaration is voluntary, not tainted by tutoring or animosity, and is not a product of the imagination of the declarant, in that event, there is no impediment in convicting the accused on the basis of such dying declaration.	None
When there are multiple dying declarations, each dying declaration has to be separately assessed and evaluated and assess independently on its own merit as to its evidentiary value and one cannot be rejected because of certain variation in the other.	None
Considering the present case on the anvil of the above principles, I find that though there was time gap between the declarations, all the three dying declarations are consistent with each other and there are no material contradictions.	None
All the three dying declarations depict truthful version of the incident, particularly the detailed narration of the incident concerning the rape committed on the victim, insertion of iron rod and the injuries caused to her vagina and rectum, unnatural sex committed on the victim and throwing the victim and PW1 out of the moving bus.	None
All the three dying declarations being voluntary, consistent and trustworthy, satisfy the test of reliability.399.	None
Dying Declaration by gestures and nods Adverting to the contention that the third dying declaration made through gestures lacks credibility, it is seen that the multiple choice questions put to the prosecutrix by PW30 Pawan Kumar, Metropolitan Magistrate, were simple and easily answerable through nods and gestures.	None
That apart, before recording the dying declaration, PW30 Pawan Kumar, Metropolitan Magistrate had satisfied himself about fit mental state of the victim to record dying declaration through nods and gestures.	None
There is nothing proved on record to show that the mental capacity of the victim was impaired, so as to doubt the third dying declaration.	None
As the victim was conscious, oriented and meaningfully communicative, it is natural that the victim was in a position to write the names of the accused persons and also about the use of long iron rod.	None
The third dying declaration recorded through nods and gestures and also by the victims own writing, writing the names of the accused inspires confidence in the Court the same was rightly relied upon by the trial Court as well as the High Court.400.	None
Dying declaration made through signs, gesture or by nods are admissible as evidence, if proper care was taken at the time of recording the statement.	None
The only caution the Court ought to take is to ensure that the person recording the dying declaration was able to correctly notice and interpret the gestures or nods of the declarant.	None
While recording the third dying declaration, signs gestures made by the victim, in response to the multiple choice questions put to the prosecutrix are admissible in evidence.	None
A dying declaration need not necessarily be by words or in writing.	None
It can be by gesture or by nod.	None
In Meesala Ramakrishan v. State of A.P. (1994) 4 SCC 182 , this Court held as under 20.	None
that dying declaration recorded on the basis of nods and gestures is not only admissible but possesses evidentiary value, the extent of which shall depend upon who recorded the statement, what is his educational attainment, what gestures and nods were made, what were the questions asked  whether they were simple or complicated  and how effective or understandable the nods and gestures were.	None
The same view was reiterated in B. Shashikala v. State of A.P. (2004) 13 SCC 249.	None
In the case of rape and sexual assault, the evidence of prosecutrix is very crucial and if it inspires confidence of the court, there is no requirement of law to insist upon corroboration of the same for convicting the accused on the basis of it.	None
Courts are expected to act with sensitivity and appreciate the evidence of the prosecutrix in the background of the entire facts of the case and not in isolation.	None
In the facts and circumstances of the present case as the statements of the prosecutrix in the form of three dying declarations are consistent with each other and there are no material contradiction, they can be completely relied upon without corroboration.	None
In the present case, the prosecutrix has made a truthful statement and the prosecution has established the case against the respondents beyond reasonable doubt.	None
The victim also wrote the names of the accused persons in her own handwriting in the dying declaration recorded by PW30 (Ex.PW30/D).	None
Considering the facts and circumstances of the present case and upon appreciation of the evidence and material on record, I find all the three dying declarations consistent, true and voluntary, satisfying the test of probabilities factor.	None
That apart, the dying declarations are wellcorroborated by medical and scientific evidence adduced by the prosecution.	None
Moreover, the same has been amply corroborated by the testimony of eye witnessPW1.	None
Corroboration of Dying declaration by Medical Evidence	None
The dying declaration is amply corroborated by medical evidence depicting injuries to vagina and internal injuries to rectum and rectovaginal septum as noted by PW49 Dr. Rashmi Ahuja and PW50 Dr, Raj Kumar Chejara.	None
On the night of 16.12.2012, the prosecutrix was medically examined by PW49 who recorded her injuries and statement in the MLC (Ex. PW49/B).	None
On local examination, a sharp cut over right labia and a 6 cm long tag of vagina was found hanging outside the introitus.	None
Vaginal examination showed bleeding and about 7 to 8 cm long posterior vaginal wall tear.	None
A rectal tear of about 4 to 5 cm was also noticed communicating with the vaginal tear.	Facts
Apart from the said injuries to the private parts of the prosecutrix, guarding and rigidity was also found in her abdomen and several bruises and marks on face were noticed.	None
Bruises and abrasions around both the eyes and nostrils were also found.	None
Lips were found edematous and left side of the mouth was injured by a small laceration.	None
Bite marks over cheeks and breast, below areola, were also present.	None
Bruises over the left breast and bite mark in interior left quadrant were prominent.	None
During surgery, conducted on 16/17.12.2012	None
PW50 Dr. Raj Kumar Chejara (Ex.	None
PW50/A and Ex.	None
PW50/B) noted contusion and bruising of jejunum, large bowel, vaginal tear, and completely torn rectovaginal septum.	None
Small and large bowels were affected and were extremely bad for any definitive repair.	None
It was also noted that rectum was longitudinally torn and the tear was continuing upward involving sigmoid colon, descending colon which was splayed open.	None
There were multiple perforations at many places of ascending colon and calcum.	None
Terminal illeum approximately one and a half feet loosely hanging in the abdominal cavity avulsed from its mesentery.	None
Rest of the small bowel was nonexistent with only patches of mucosa at places and borders of the mesentery were contused.	None
While performing second surgery on 19th December, 2012, surgery team also recorded findings that rectum was longitudinally torn on anterior aspect in continuation with peritorial tear and other internal injuries.	None
On 26122012 the condition of the prosecutrix was examined and it was decided to shift her abroad for further treatment and she was shifted by an airambulance to Singapore Mount Elizabeth Hospital.	None
The prosecutrix died at Mount Elizabeth Hospital, Singapore on 29122012 at 0445 AM.	None
Cause of death is stated as sepsis with multi organ failure following multiple injuries.	None
(Ex.PW34/A) Injuries to vagina, rectum and rectovaginal septum as noted by PW49 Dr. Rashmi Ahuja and PW50 Dr. Raj Kumar Chejara and the injuries as depicted in the postmortem certificate, including the other external injuries which are evidently marks of violence during the incident, exhibit the cruel nature of gang rape committed on the victim.	None
The profused bleeding from vagina and tag of vagina hanging outside completely rectovaginal septum clearly demonstrate the violent act of gang rape committed on the victim.	None
The medical reports including the operation theatre notes (Ex.	None
PW50/A and 50/B) and the injuries thereon indicates the pain and suffering which the victim had undergone due to multiple organ failure and other injuries caused by insertion of iron rod.	None
If considered on the anvil of settled legal principles, injuries on the person of a rape victim is not even a sine qua non for proving the charge of rape, as held in Joseph v. State of Kerala (2000) 5 SCC 197.	None
The same principle was reiterated in State of Maharashtra v. Suresh (2000) 1 SCC 471.	None
As rightly held in State of Rajasthan v. N.K., The Accused (2000) 5 SCC 30 , absence of injury on the person of the victim is not necessarily an evidence of falsity of the allegations of rape or evidence of consent on the part of the prosecutrix.	None
In the present case, the extensive injuries found on the vagina private parts of the body of the victim and injuries caused to the internal organs and all over the body, clearly show that the victim was ravished.407.	None
Corroboration of dying declaration by scientific evidence The DNA profile generated from bloodstained pants, tshirts and jackets recovered at the behest of A2 Mukesh matched with the DNA profile of the victim.	None
Likewise, the DNA profile generated from the bloodstained jeans and banian recovered at the behest of A3 Akshay matched with the DNA profile of the victim.	None
DNA profile generated from the bloodstained underwear, chappal and jacket recovered at the behest of A4 Vinay matched with the DNA profile of the victim.	None
DNA profiles generated from the clothes of the accused recovered at their behest consistent with that of the victim is an unimpeachable evidence incriminating the accused in the occurrence.	None
As submitted by the prosecution, there is no plausible explanation from the accused as to the matching of DNA profile of the victim with that of the DNA profile generated from the clothes of the accused.	None
The courts below rightly took note of the DNA analysis report in finding the accused guilty.	None
Bite marks on the chest of the victim and Odontology Report It is also to be noted that the photographs of bite marks found on the body of the victim, lifted by PW66 Shri Asghar Hussain were examined by PW71 Dr. Ashith B. Acharya.	None
The analysis shows that at least three bite marks were caused by accused Ram Singh whereas one bite mark has been identified to have been most likely caused by accused Akshay.	None
This aspect of Odontology Report has been elaborately discussed by the High Court in paragraphs (91) to (94) of its judgment.	None
Odontology Report which links accused Ram Singh and accused Akshay, with the case, strengthens the prosecution case as to their involvement.	None
Going by the version of the prosecutrix, as per the dying declaration and the evidence adduced, in particular medical evidence and scientific evidence, I find the evidence of the prosecutrix being amply corroborated.	None
As discussed earlier, in rape cases, Court should examine the broader probabilities of a case and not get swayed by discrepancies.	None
The conviction can be based even on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix.	None
However, in this case, dying declarations recorded from the prosecutrix are corroborated in material particulars by (i) medical evidence (ii) evidence of injured witness PW1 (iii) matching of DNA profiles, generated from bloodstained clothes of the accused, iron rod recovered at the behest of deceased accused Ram Singh and various articles recovered from the bus with the DNA profile of the victim (iv) recovery of belongings of the victim at the behest of the accused, viz.	None
debit card recovered from A1 Ram Singh and Nokia mobile from A4 Vinay.	None
The dying declarations well corroborated by medical and scientific evidence strengthen the case of the prosecution by conclusively connecting the accused with the crime.410.	None
Use of Iron Rod and death of the victim Case of the prosecution is that the accused brutally inserted iron rod in the vagina of the prosecutrix and pulled out internal organs of the prosecutrix.	None
The defence refuted the use of iron rod by the accused on the ground that the complainant as well as the victim did not mention the use of iron rods in their first statements.	Arguments of Petitioner
Contention of the appellants is that when the victim had given details of the entire incident to PW49 Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, if iron rod had been used, she would not have omitted to mention the use of iron rods in the incident.	None
We do not find force in such a contention, as ample reliable evidence are proved on record which lead to the irresistible conclusion that iron rod was used and it was not a mere piece of concoction.411.	None
Use of iron rods and insertion of the same in the private parts of the victim is established by the second dying declaration recorded by SDM PW27 Usha Chaturvedi, where the victim has given a detailed account of the incident, role of the accused, gang rape committed on her and other offences including the use of iron rods.	None
The brutality with which the accused persons inserted iron rod in the rectum and vagina of the victim and took out her internal organs from the vaginal and anal opening is reflected in Ex.	None
PW 49/A. Further, medical opinion of PW49 (Ex.	None
PW49/G) stating that the rectovaginal injury could be caused by the rods recovered from the bus, strengthens the statement of the victim and the prosecution version.	None
When the second and third dying declarations of the prosecutrix are well corroborated by the medical evidence, nonmention of use of iron rods in prosecutrixs statement to PW49 Dr. Rashmi Ahuja (Ex. PW49/A), does not materially affect the credibility of the dying declaration.	None
Insertion of iron rod in the private parts of the prosecutrix is amply established by the nature of multiple injuries caused to jejunum and rectum which was longitudinally torn, tag of vagina hanging out and completely torn rectovaginal septum.412.	None
At the behest of accused Ram Singh two iron rods (Ex.P49/1 and Ex.P49/2) were recovered from the shelf of the drivers cabin vide seizure Memo Ex.	None
PW74/G. The bloodstained rods deposited in the Malkhana were thereafter sent for chemical analysis.	None
The DNA report prepared by PW45 Dr. B.K Mohapatra, indicates that the DNA profile developed from the bloodstained iron rods is consistent with the DNA profile of the victim.	None
Presence of blood on the iron rods and the DNA profile of which is consistent with the DNA profile of the victim establishes the prosecution case as to the alleged use of iron rods in the incident.	None
Evidence of PW1 In his first statement made on 16.12.2012, eye witness PW1 stated that he accompanied the prosecutrix to Select City Mall, Saket, New Delhi in an auto from Dwarka, New Delhi where they watched a movie till about 0830 p.m.	None
After leaving the Mall, PW1 and the victim took an auto to Munirka from where they boarded the fateful bus.	None
After the prosecutrix and PW1 boarded the bus, the accused surrounded PW1 and pinned him down in front side of the bus.	None
While the accused Vinay and Pawan held PW1, the other three accused committed rape on the victim on the rear side of the bus.	None
Thereafter, other accused held PW1, while Vinay and Pawan committed rape on the victim.	None
Later accused Mukesh who was earlier driving the bus, committed rape on the victim.	None
After the incident, PW1 and the prosecutrix were thrown out of the moving bus, near Mahipalpur flyover.	None
In the incident, PW1 himself sustained injuries which lends assurance to his credibility.	None
That PW1 accompanied the victim to Select City Mall and that he was with the victim till the end, is proved by ample evidence.	None
As per the case of the prosecution, on the fateful day, the complainant and the prosecutrix had gone to Saket Mall to see a movie.	None
CCTV footage produced by PW25 Rajender Singh Bisht in two CDs (Ex.PW25/C1 and PW25/C2) and seven photographs (Ex.PW25/B1 to Ex.	None
PW25/B7) corroborate the version of PW1 that the complainant and the victim were present at Saket Mall till 857 p.m.	None
The certificate under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 with respect to the said footage is proved by PW26 Shri Sandeep Singh (Ex.PW26/A) who is the CCTV operator at Select City Mall.	None
The computer generated electronic record in evidence, admissible at a trial is proved in the manner specified in Section 65B of the Evidence Act.	None
Subsection (1) of Section 65 of the Evidence Act makes electronic records admissible as a document, paper print out of electronic records stored in optical or magnetic media produced by a computer, subject to the fulfillment of the conditions specified in subsection (2) of Section 65B of the Evidence Act.	None
When those conditions are satisfied, the electronic record becomes admissible in any proceeding without further proof or production of the original, as evidence of any of the contents of the original or any fact stated therein of which direct evidence is admissible.	None
Secondary evidence of contents of document can also be led under Section 65 of the Evidence Act.	None
Having carefully gone through the deposition of PW1, I find that his evidence, even after lengthy cross examination, remains unshaken.	None
The evidence of a witness is not to be disbelieved simply because of minor discrepancies.	None
It is to be examined whether he was present or not at the crime scene and whether he is telling the truth or not.	None
PW1 has clearly explained as to how he happened to be with the victim and considering the cogent evidence adduced by the prosecution, presence of PW1 cannot be doubted in any manner.	None
PW1 himself was injured in the incident and he was admitted in the Casualty Ward, where PW51 Dr. Sachin Bajaj examined him.	None
As per Ex.PW51/A, lacerated wound over the vertex of scalp, lacertated wound over left upper lip and abrasion over right knee were found on the person of PW1.	None
Testimony of PW1 being testimony of an injured witness lends credibility to his evidence and prosecutions case.	None
As rightly pointed out by the Courts below, no convincing grounds exist to discard the evidence of PW1, an injured witness.	None
The question of the weight to be attached to the evidence of an injured witness has been extensively discussed by this Court in Mano Dutt and Anr.	None
v. State of Uttar Pradesh (2012) 4 SCC 79.	None
After exhaustively referring to various judgments on this point, this Court held as under  We may merely refer to Abdul Sayeed v. State of M.P.(2010)10 SCC 259 where this Court held as under (SCC pp. 27172, paras 2830)28.	None
The question of the weight to be attached to the evidence of a witness that was himself injured in the course of the occurrence has been extensively discussed by this Court.	None
Where a witness to the occurrence has himself been injured in the incident, the testimony of such a witness is generally considered to be very reliable, as he is a witness that comes with a builtin guarantee of his presence at the scene of the crime and is unlikely to spare his actual assailant(s) in order to falsely implicate someone.	None
Convincing evidence is required to discredit an injured witness.	None
Vide Ramlagan Singh v. State of Bihar(1973) 3 SCC 881 , Malkhan Singh v. State of U.P.(1975) 3 SCC 311 , Machhi Singh v. State of Punjab (1983) 3 SCC 470 , Appabhai v. State of Gujarat 1988 Supp SCC 241, Bonkya v. State of Maharashtra(1995) 6 SCC 447 , Bhag Singh v. State of Punjab (1997) 7 SCC 712 , Mohar v. State of U.P.(2002) 7 SCC 606 (SCC p. 606bc), Dinesh Kumar v. State of Rajasthan(2008) 8 SCC 270 , Vishnu v. State of Rajasthan(2009) 10 SCC 477 , Annareddy Sambasiva Reddy v. State of A.P.(2009) 12 SCC 546 and Balraje v. State of Maharashtra(2010) 6 SCC 673.	None
29.	None
While deciding this issue, a similar view was taken in Jarnail Singh v. State of Punjab(2009) 9 SCC 719 where this Court reiterated the special evidentiary status accorded to the testimony of an injured accused and relying on its earlier judgments held as under (SCC pp.	None
72627, paras 2829)28.	None
Darshan Singh (PW 4) was an injured witness.	None
He had been examined by the doctor.	None
His testimony could not be brushed aside lightly.	None
He had given full details of the incident as he was present at the time when the assailants reached the tubewell.	None
In Shivalingappa Kallayanappa v. State of Karnataka1994 Supp (3) SCC 235	None
this Court has held that the deposition of the injured witness should be relied upon unless there are strong grounds for rejection of his evidence on the basis of major contradictions and discrepancies, for the reason that his presence on the scene stands established in case it is proved that he suffered the injury during the said incident.29.	None
In State of U.P. v. Kishan Chand(2004) 7 SCC 629 a similar view has been reiterated observing that the testimony of a stamped witness has its own relevance and efficacy.	None
The fact that the witness sustained injuries at the time and place of occurrence, lends support to his testimony that he was present during the occurrence.	None
In case the injured witness is subjected to lengthy crossexamination and nothing can be elicited to discard his testimony, it should be relied upon (vide Krishan v. State of Haryana(2006) 12 SCC 459).	None
Thus, we are of the considered opinion that evidence of Darshan Singh (PW 4) has rightly been relied upon by the courts below.30.	None
The law on the point can be summarised to the effect that the testimony of the injured witness is accorded a special status in law.	None
This is as a consequence of the fact that the injury to the witness is an inbuilt guarantee of his presence at the scene of the crime and because the witness will not want to let his actual assailant go unpunished merely to falsely implicate a third party for the commission of the offence.	None
Thus, the deposition of the injured witness should be relied upon unless there are strong grounds for rejection of his evidence on the basis of major contradictions and discrepancies therein.	None
After the accused were arrested, they made disclosure statements.	None
Pursuant to the said disclosure statements, recoveries of various articles were effected which included clothes of the accused and articles belonging to PW1 and the prosecutrix.	None
The Samsung Galaxy Duos mobile phone recovered from A2 was identified by the complainant in the court as belonging to him and testimony of the complainant was further fortified by the testimony of PW56 Sandeep Dabral, Manager, Spice Mobile Shop, who stated that the said Samsung Mobile bearing the respective IMEI number was sold in the name of the complainant.	None
Also, the metro card and silver ring recovered at the behest of A3 Akshay were identified by PW1 in court as belonging to him.	None
The silver ring was also identified by the complainant in the TIP proceedings conducted on 28.12.2012.	None
Likewise, the HushPuppies shoes recovered at the behest of A4 Vinay and wrist watch of Sonata make recovered at the behest of A5 Pawan were identified by PW1 in TIP proceedings as belonging to him.	None
Recoveries of articles of PW1 and other scientific evidence, irrebutably establish the presence of PW1 at the crime scene and strengthens the credibility of PW1s testimony.	None
Apart from the recoveries made at the behest of the accused, presence of PW1 is also confirmed by DNA profile generated from the bloodstained mulberry leaves and grass collected from Mahipalpur (seized vide Memo Ex.	None
PW74/C) where both the victims were thrown after the incident.	None
As per the Chemical Analysis Report, DNA profile generated from the bloodstained murberry leaves collected from the Mahipalpur flyover were found to be of male origin and consistent with the DNA profile of PW1.	None
This proves that PW1 was present with the victim at the time of the incident and both of them were together thrown out of the bus at Mahipalpur.	None
Further, as discussed infra, pursuant to the disclosure statement of the accused, clothes of accused, some of which were bloodstained and other incriminating articles were recovered.	None
PW45 Dr. B.K. Mohapatra matched the DNA profiles of the blood detected on the clothes of the accused with that of the complainant and the victim.	None
One set of DNA profile generated from jeanspant of the accused Akshay (A3) matched the DNA profile of PW1.	None
Likewise, one set of DNA profile generated from the sports jacket of accused Vinay (A4) was found consistent with the DNA profile of PW1.	None
Also, one set of DNA profile generated from black coloured sweater of Accused Pawan Gupta (A5) was found consistent with the DNA profile of PW1.	None
Result of DNA analysis further corroborates the version of PW1 and strengthens the prosecution case.	None
DNA Analysis Report, as provided by PW45 is a vital piece of evidence connecting the accused with the crime.	None
Matching of DNA profile generated from the bunch of hair recovered from the floor of the bus near the second row seat on the left side, with DNA profile of the complainant is yet another piece of evidence corroborating the version of PW1vide Ex.PW45/B. Further, DNA profile developed from burnt cloth pieces, recovered from near the rear side entry of the bus was found consistent with DNA profile of PW1 and this again fortifies the presence of PW1 with the victim in the bus.	None
Contention of the appellants is that there are vital contradictions in the statements of PW1.	None
It is contended that initially PW1 did not give the names of the accused in the FIR and that he kept on improving his version, in particular, in the second supplementary statement recorded on 17.12.2012 in which he gave the details of the bus involved.	None
To contend that testimony of PW1 is not trustworthy, reliance is placed on Kathi Bharat Vajsur And Anr.	None
v. State of Gujarat (2012) 5 SCC 724 .	None
In Kathi Bharat Vajsurs case, this Court has observed that when there are inconsistencies or contradictions in oral evidence and the same is found to be in contradiction with other evidence then it cannot be held that the prosecution has proved the case beyond reasonable doubt.	None
While appreciating the evidence of a witness, the approach must be to consider the entire evidence and analyze whether the evidence as a whole gives a complete chain of facts depicting truth.	None
Once that impression is formed, it is necessary for the court to scrutinize evidence particularly keeping in view the prosecution case.	None
Any minor discrepancies or improvements not touching the core of the prosecution case and not going to the root of the matter, does not affect the trustworthiness of the witness.	None
Insofar as the contention that PW1 kept on improving his version in his statement recorded at various point of time, it is noted that there are indeed some improvements in his version but, the core of his version as to the occurrence remains consistent.	None
More so, when PW1 and the victim faced such a traumatic experience, immediately after the incident, they cannot be expected to give minute details of the incident.	None
It would have taken some time for them to come out of the shock and recollect the incident and give a detailed version of the incident.	None
It is to be noted that in the present case, the statements of PW1 recorded on various dates are not contradictory to each other.	None
The subsequent statements though are more detailed as compared to the former ones, in the circumstances of the case, it cannot be said to be unnatural affecting the trustworthiness of PW1s testimony.	None
There is hardly any justification for doubting the evidence of PW1, especially when it is corroborated by recovery of PW1s articles from the accused and scientific evidence.	None
The trial Court as well as the High Court found PW1s evidence credible and trustworthy and I find no reason to take a different view.	None
The view of the High Court and the trial court is fortified by the decisions of this court in Pudhu Raja and Anr.	None
v. State Rep. by Inspector of Police, (2012)	None
11 SCC 196 , Jaswant Singh v. State of Haryana (2000) 4 SCC 484 and Akhtar and Ors.	None
v. State of Uttaranchal (2009) 13 SCC 722.	None
Further, the evidence of PW1 is amply strengthened by scientific evidence and recovery of the incriminating articles from the accused.	None
The alleged omissions and improvements in the evidence of PW1 pointed out by the defence do not materially affect the evidence of PW1.	None
Recovery of the bus and its Involvement in the incident Description of the entire incident by PW1 and the victim led the investigating team to the Hotel named Hotel Delhi Airport, where PW1 and the victim were dumped after the incident.	None
PW67 P.K. Jha, owner of Hotel Delhi Airport handed over the pen drive containing CCTV footage (Ex.P67/1) and CD (Ex.P67/2) to the Investigating Officer which were seized.	None
From the CCTV footage, the offending bus bearing registration No.DL1PC0149 was identified by PW1.	None
The bus was seized from Ravi Dass Camp and Ram Singh (A1) was also arrested.	None
PW81 Dinesh Yadav is the owner of the bus bearing Registration No.DL1PC0149 (Ex.P1).	None
PW81 runs buses under the name and style Yadav Travels.	None
On interrogation, PW81 Dinesh Yadav stated that A1 Ram Singh was the driver of the bus No.DL1PC0149 in December, 2012 and A3 Akshay Kumar Singh was his helper in the bus.	None
PW81 also informed the police that the bus was attached to Birla Vidya Niketan School, Pushp Vihar, New Delhi to ferry students to the school in the morning and that it was also engaged by a Company named M s. Net Ambit in Noida, to take its employees from Delhi to Noida.	None
PW81 also informed the police that after daily routine trip, A1 Ram Singh used to park the bus at Ravi Dass Camp, R.K. Puram, near his residence.	None
PW81 further informed that on 17.12.2012, the bus as usual went from Delhi to Noida to take the Staff of M s Net Ambit to their office.	None
The recovery of the bus (Ex.P1) and evidence of PW81 led to a breakthrough in the investigation that A1 Ram Singh was the driver of the bus and A3 Akshay was the cleaner of the bus.	None
Furthermore, in order to prove that A1 Ram Singh (Dead) was the driver of the bus No.DL1PC0149 (Ex.P1), PW16 Rajeev Jakhmola, Manager (Administration) of Birla Vidya Niketan School, Pushp Vihar, New Delhi was examined.	None
In his evidence, PW16 stated that PW81, Dinesh Yadav had provided the school with seven buses on contract basis including the bus No.DL1PC0149 (Ex.P1) and that A1 Ram Singh was its driver.	None
In his interrogation by the police, PW16 had also handed over Ram Singhs driving licence alongwith copy of agreement of the school with the owner of the bus and other documents.	None
By adducing the evidence of PW81 Dinesh Yadav and PW16 Rajeev Jakhmola, the prosecution has established that the bus in question was routinely driven by A1 Ram Singh (Dead) and A3 Akshay Kumar was the helper in the bus.	None
On 17.12.2012, a team of experts from CFSL comprising PW45 Dr. B.K. Mohapatra, PW46 A.D. Shah, PW79 P.K. Gottam and others, went to the Thyagraj Stadium and inspected the bus Ex.P1.	None
On inspection, certain articles were seized from the said bus vide seizure memo Ex.	None
PW74/P. It is brought on record that the samples were diligently collected and taken to CFSL, CBI by SI Subhash (PW74) vide RC No. 178/21/12 for examination.	None
The DNA profile of material objects lifted from the bus bearing No.DL1PC0149 were found consistent with that of the victim and the complainant.	None
Matching of the DNA profile developed from the articles seized from the bus DL1PC0149 like hair recovered from the third row of the bus on the left side with the DNA profile of PW1, strengthens the prosecution case as to the involvement of the offending bus bearing registration No.DL1PC0149.	None
DNA profile developed from the bloodstained curtains of the bus and bloodstained seat covers of bus and the bunch of hair recovered from the floor of the bus below sixth row matched with the DNA profile of the victim.	None
The evidence of DNA analysis is an unimpeachable evidence as to the involvement of the offending bus in the commission of offence and also strong unimpeachable evidence connecting the accused with the crime.	None
The accused neither rebutted this evidence nor offered any convincing explanation except making feeble attempt by stating that everything was concocted.	None
PW46, A.D. Shah, Senior Scientific Officer (Finger Prints), CFSL, CBI examined the chance prints lifted from the bus.	None
Chance print marked as Q.1 lifted from the bus (Ex.P1) was found identical with the left palm print of accused Vinay Sharma.	None
Further chance print marked as Q.4 was found identical with right thumb impression of accused Vinay Sharma.	None
A finger print expert report (Ex.PW46/D) states that the chance print lifted from the bus being identical with the finger print of accused Vinay Sharma, establishes the presence of accused Vinay Sharma in the bus, thereby strengthening prosecution case.	None
Arrest and Recovery under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act Prosecution very much relies upon disclosure statements of the accused, pursuant to which articles of the victim and also of PW1 were recovered.	None
Accused being in possession of the articles of the victim and that of PW1, is a militating circumstance against the accused and it is for the accused to explain as to how they came in possession of these articles.	None
Details of arrest of accused and articles recovered from the accused are as under CHART As noted in the above tabular form, various articles of the complainant and the victim were recovered from the accused viz., Samsung Galaxy Phone (recovered at the behest of A2 Mukesh) silver ring (recovered at the behest of A3 Akshay)	None
Hush Puppies shoes (recovered at the behest of A4 Vinay) and Sonata Wrist Watch (recovered at the behest of A5 Pawan).	None
Recovery of belongings of PW1 and that of the victim, at the instance of the accused is a relevant fact duly proved by the prosecution.	None
Notably the articles recovered from the accused thereto have been duly identified by the complainant in test identification proceedings.	None
Recovery of articles of complainant (PW1) and that of the victim at the behest of accused is a strong incriminating circumstance implicating the accused.	None
As rightly pointed out by the Courts below, the accused have not offered any cogent or plausible explanation as to how they came in possession of those articles.	None
Similarly, the Indian bank debit card (Ex.PW74/3) recovered at the behest of A1 Ram Singh and black coloured Nokia mobile phone (Ex.PW68/5) recovered at the behest of A4 Vinay have been proved to be used by the prosecutrix.	None
PW75 Asha Devi mother of the victim in her testimony stated that the Debit card belonged to her PW75 Asha Devi and that the same was in the possession of her daughter.	None
Nokia mobile phone (Ex.PW68/5) is stated to be the mobile used by the victim.	None
Notably, the articles of the prosecutrix recovered from the accused were proved by the evidence of PW75 Asha Devi (mother of the victim) and the same was not controverted by the defence.	None
Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act (for short the Evidence Act) speaks of a confession made to a police officer, which shall not be proved as against a person accused of an offence.	None
Section 26 of the Evidence Act also speaks that no confession made by the person whilst he is in the custody of a police officer, unless it be made in the immediate presence of a Magistrate, shall be proved as against such person.	None
Sections 25 and 26 of the Evidence Act put a complete bar on the admissibility of a confessional statement made to a police officer or a confession made in absentia of a Magistrate, while in custody.	None
Section 27 of the Evidence Act is by way of a proviso to Sections 25 and 26 of the Evidence Act and a statement even by way of confession made in police custody which distinctly relates to the fact discovered is admissible in evidence against the accused.	None
Section 27 of the Evidence Act reads as under How much of information received from accused may be proved.	None
Provided that, when any fact is deposed to as discovered in consequence of information received from a person accused of any offence, in the custody of a police officer, so much of such information, whether it amounts to a confession or not, as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered, may be proved.	None
Section 27 is based on the view that if a fact is actually discovered in consequence of information given, some guarantee is afforded thereby that the information is true and is a relevant fact and accordingly it can be safely allowed to be given in evidence.	None
Section 27 has prescribed two limitations for determining how much of the information received from the accused can be proved against him (i)	None
The information must be such as the accused has caused discovery of the fact, i.e. the fact must be the consequence, and the information the cause of its discovery (ii) The information must relate distinctly to the fact discovered.	None
Both the conditions must be satisfied.	None
Various requirements of Section 27 of the Evidence Act are succinctly summed up in Anter Singh v. State of Rajasthan (2004) 10 SCC 657  	None
The various requirements of the section can be summed up as follows(1)	None
The fact of which evidence is sought to be given must be relevant to the issue.	None
It must be borne in mind that the provision has nothing to do with the question of relevancy.	None
The relevancy of the fact discovered must be established according to the prescriptions relating to relevancy of other evidence connecting it with the crime in order to make the fact discovered admissible.(2)	None
The fact must have been discovered.(3)	None
The discovery must have been in consequence of some information received from the accused and not by the accuseds own act.(4)	None
The person giving the information must be accused of any offence.(5)	None
He must be in the custody of a police officer.(6)	None
The discovery of a fact in consequence of information received from an accused in custody must be deposed to.(7)	None
Thereupon only that portion of the information which relates distinctly or strictly to the fact discovered can be proved.	None
The rest is inadmissible.	None
Appending a note of caution to prevent the misuse of the provision of Section 27 of the Evidence Act, this Court in Geejaganda Somaiah v. State of Karnataka (2007) 9 SCC 315 , observed that the courts need to be vigilant about application of Section 27 of the Evidence Act.	None
Relevant extract from the judgment is as under As the section is alleged to be frequently misused by the police, the courts are required to be vigilant about its application.	None
The court must ensure the credibility of evidence by police because this provision is vulnerable to abuse.	None
It does not, however, mean that any statement made in terms of the aforesaid section should be seen with suspicion and it cannot be discarded only on the ground that it was made to a police officer during investigation.	None
The court has to be cautious that no effort is made by the prosecution to make out a statement of the accused with a simple case of recovery as a case of discovery of fact in order to attract the provisions of Section 27 of the Evidence Act.	None
Even though, the arrest and recovery under Section 27 of the Evidence Act is often sought to be misused, the courts cannot be expected to completely ignore how crucial are the recoveries made under Section 27 in an investigation.	None
The legislature while incorporating Section 27, as an exception to Sections 24, 25 and 26 of the Evidence Act, was convinced of the quintessential purpose Section 27 would serve in an investigation process.	None
The recovery made under Section 27 of the Evidence Act not only acts as the foundation stone for proceeding with an investigation, but also completes the chain of circumstances.	None
Once the recovery is proved by the prosecution, burden of proof on the defence to rebut the same is very strict, which cannot be discharged merely by pointing at procedural irregularities in making the recoveries, especially when the recovery is corroborated by direct as well as circumstantial evidence, especially when the investigating officer assures that failure in examining independent witness while making the recoveries was not a deliberate or mala fide, rather it was on account of exceptional circumstances attending the investigation process.	None
While the prosecution has been able to prove the recoveries made at the behest of the accused, the defence counsel repeatedly argued in favour of discarding the recoveries made, on the ground that no independent witnesses were examined while effecting such recoveries and preparing seizure memos.438.	None
The above contention of the defence counsel urges one to look into the specifics of Section 27 of the Evidence Act.	None
As a matter of fact, need of examining independent witnesses, while making recoveries pursuant to the disclosure statement of the accused is a rule of caution evolved by the Judiciary, which aims at protecting the right of the accused by ensuring transparency and credibility in the investigation of a criminal case.	None
In the present case, PW80 SI Pratibha Sharma has deposed in her crossexamination that no independent person had agreed to become a witness and in the light of such a statement, there is no reason for the courts to doubt the version of the police and the recoveries made.	None
When recovery is made pursuant to the statement of accused, seizure memo prepared by the Investigating Officer need not mandatorily be attested by independent witnesses.	None
In State Govt.	None
of NCT of Delhi v. Sunil and Another (2001) 1 SCC 652 , it was held that nonattestation of seizure memo by independent witnesses cannot be a ground to disbelieve recovery of articles list consequent upon the statement of the accused.	None
It was further held that there was no requirement, either under Section 27 of the Evidence Act or under Section 161 Cr.P.C. to obtain signature of independent witnesses.	None
If the version of the police is not shown to be unreliable, there is no reason to doubt the version of the police regarding arrest and contents of the seizure memos.	None
In the landmark case of Pulukuri Kottaya v. KingEmperor AIR 1947 PC 67 , the Privy Council has laid down the relevance of information received from the accused for the purpose of Section 27 of the Evidence Act.	None
Relevant extracts from the judgment are as under Section 27, which is not artistically worded, provides an exception to the prohibition imposed by the preceding section, and enables certain statements made by a person in police custody to be proved.	None
The condition necessary to bring the section into operation is that the discovery of a fact in consequence of information received from a person accused of any offence in the custody of a Police officer must be deposed to, and thereupon so much of the information as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered may be proved.	None
The section seems to be based on the view that if a fact is actually discovered in consequence of information given, some guarantee is afforded thereby that the information was true, and accordingly can be safely allowed to be given in evidence but clearly the extent of the information admissible must depend on the exact nature of the fact discovered to which such information is required to relate.	None
The test laid down in Pulukuri Kottayas case was reiterated in several subsequent judgments of this Court including State (NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu alias Afsan Guru (2005) 11 SCC 600.	None
In the light of above discussion, it is held that recoveries made pursuant to disclosure statement of the accused are duly proved by the prosecution and there is no substantial reason to discard the same.	None
Recovery of articles of PW1 and also that of victim at the instance of the accused is a strong incriminating evidence against accused, especially when no plausible explanation is forthcoming from the accused.	None
Further, as discussed infra, the scientific examination of the articles recovered completely place them in line with the chain of events described by the prosecution.	None
DNA Analysis In order to establish a clear link between the accused persons and the incident at hand, the prosecution has also adduced scientific evidence in the form of DNA analysis.	None
For the purpose of DNA profiling, various samples were taken from the person of the prosecutrix the complainant the accused, their clothes articles the dumping spot the iron rods the ashes of burnt clothes as well as from the offending bus.	None
PW45 Dr. B.K. Mohapatra analysed the said DNA profiles and submitted his report thereof.	None
In his report, he concluded that the samples were authentic and capable of establishing the identities of the persons concerned beyond reasonable doubt.	None
Prosecution relies upon the biological examination of various articles including the samples collected from the accused and the DNA profiles generated from the bloodstained clothes of the accused.	None
The DNA profile generated from the samples collected, when compared with the DNA profile generated from the blood samples of the victim and PW1 Awninder Pratab Singh, were found consistent.	None
For easy reference and for completion of narration of events, I choose to refer to the articles recovered from the accused pursuant to their disclosure statements and other articles like bloodstained clothes samples of personal fluids like blood, saliva with control swab other samples like nail clippings, penil swab, stray hair etc.	None
Details of the DNA analysis is contained in the reports of biological examination and DNA profiling (Ex.PW45/A to Ex.PW45/C), furnished by PW45 Dr. B.K. Mohapatra.	None
CHART Before considering the above findings of DNA analysis contained in tabular form, let me first refer to what is DNA, the infallibility of identification by DNA profiling and its accuracy with certainty.	None
DNA  Deoxyribonucleic acid, which is found in the chromosomes of the cells of living beings, is the blueprint of an individual.	None
DNA is the genetic blue print for life and is virtually contained in every cell.	None
No two persons, except identical twins have ever had identical DNA.	None
DNA profiling is an extremely accurate way to compare a suspects DNA with crime scene specimens, victims DNA on the bloodstained clothes of the accused or other articles recovered, DNA testing can make a virtually positive identification when the two samples match.	None
A DNA finger print is identical for every part of the body, whether it is the blood, saliva, brain, kidney or foot on any part of the body.	None
It cannot be changed it will be identical no matter what is done to a body.	None
Even relatively minute quantities of blood, saliva or semen at a crime scene or on clothes can yield sufficient material for analysis.	None
The Experts opine that the identification is almost hundred per cent precise.	None
Using this i.e. chemical structure of genetic information by generating DNA profile of the individual, identification of an individual is done like in the traditional method of identifying finger prints of offenders.	None
Finger prints are only on the fingers and at times may be altered.	None
Burning or cutting a finger can change the make of the finger print.	None
But DNA cannot be changed for an individual no matter whatever happens to a body.	None
We may usefully refer to Advanced Law Lexicon, 3rd Edition Reprint 2009 by P. Ramanatha Aiyar which explains DNA as under DNA.	None
Deoxyribonucleicacid, the nucleoprotein of chromosomes.	None
The doublehelix structure in cell nuclei that carries the genetic information of most living organisms.	None
The material in a cell that makes up the genes and controls the cell.	None
(Biological Term)DNA finger printing.	None
A method of identification especially for evidentiary purposes by analyzing and comparing the DNA from tissue samples.	None
(Merriam Webster)	None
In the same Law Lexicon, learned author refers to DNA identification as under DNA identification.	None
A method of comparing a persons deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)  a patterned chemical structure of genetic information  with the DNA in a biological specimen (such as blood, tissue, or hair) to determine if the person is the source of the specimen.  	None
Also termed DNA finger printing genetic finger printing (Black, 7th Edition, 1999) DNA evidence is now a predominant forensic technique for identifying criminals when biological tissues are left at the scene of crime or for identifying the source of blood found on any articles or clothes etc. recovered from the accused or from witnesses.	None
DNA testing on samples such as saliva, skin, blood, hair or semen not only helps to convict the accused but also serves to exonerate.	None
The sophisticated technology of DNA finger printing makes it possible to obtain conclusive results.	None
Section 53A Cr.	None
P.C. is added by the Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Act, 2005.	None
It provides for a detailed medical examination of accused for an offence of rape or attempt to commit rape by the registered medical practitioners employed in a hospital run by the Government or by a local authority or in the absence of such a practitioner within the radius of 16 kms.	None
from the place where the offence has been committed by any other registered medical practitioner.	None
Observing that DNA is scientifically accurate and exact science and that the trial court was not justified in rejecting DNA report, in Santosh Kumar Singh v. State through CBI (2010) 9 SCC 747 , the Court held as under We now come to the circumstance with regard to the comparison of the semen stains with the blood taken from the appellant.	None
The trial court had found against the prosecution on this aspect.	None
In this connection, we must emphasise that the court cannot substitute its own opinion for that of an expert, more particularly in a science such as DNA profiling which is a recent development.66.	None
Dr. Lalji Singh in his examinationinchief deposed that he had been involved with the DNA technology ever since the year 1974 and he had returned to India from the UK in 1987 and joined CCMB, Hyderabad and had developed indigenous methods and techniques for DNA finger printing which were now being used in this country.	None
We also see that the expertise and experience of Dr. Lalji Singh in his field has been recognised by this Court in Kamalanantha v. State of T.N. (2005) 5 SCC 194	None
We further notice that CW 1 Dr. G.V. Rao was a scientist of equal repute and he had in fact conducted the tests under the supervision of Dr. Lalji Singh.	None
It was not even disputed before us during the course of arguments that these two scientists were persons of eminence and that the laboratory in question was also held in the highest esteem in India.67.	None
The statements of Dr. Lalji Singh and Dr. G.V. Rao reveal that the samples had been tested as per the procedure developed by the laboratory, that the samples were sufficient for the purposes of comparison and that there was no possibility of the samples having been contaminated or tampered with.	None
The two scientists gave very comprehensive statements supported by documents that DNA of the semen stains on the swabs and slides and the underwear of the deceased and the blood samples of the appellant was from a single source and that source was the appellant.68.	None
It is significant that not a single question was put to PW Dr. Lalji Singh as to the accuracy of the methodology or the procedure followed for the DNA profiling.	None
The trial court has referred to a large number of textbooks and has given adverse findings on the accuracy of the tests carried out in the present case.	None
We are unable to accept these conclusions as the court has substituted its own opinion ignoring the complexity of the issue on a highly technical subject, more particularly as the questions raised by the court had not been put to the expert witnesses.	None
In Bhagwan Das v. State of Rajasthan AIR 1957 SC 589 it has been held that it would be a dangerous doctrine to lay down that the report of an expert witness could be brushed aside by making reference to some text on that subject without such text being put to the expert.71.	None
We feel that the trial court was not justified in rejecting the DNA report, as nothing adverse could be pointed out against the two experts who had submitted it.	None
We must, therefore, accept the DNA report as being scientifically accurate and an exact science as held by this Court in Kamti Devi v. Poshi Ram (2001) 5 SCC 311.	None
In arriving at its conclusions the trial court was also influenced by the fact that the semen swabs and slides and the blood samples of the appellant had not been kept in proper custody and had been tampered with, as already indicated above.	None
We are of the opinion that the trial court was in error on this score.	None
We, accordingly, endorse the conclusions of the High Court on Circumstance 9.emphasis added.	None
From the evidence of PW45 and the details given in the above tabular form, it is seen that the DNA profile generated from bloodstained clothes of the accused namely, A1 Ram Singh (dead) A2 Mukesh A3 Akshay A4	None
Vinay and A5 Pawan Gupta Kalu are found consistent with the DNA profile of the prosecutrix.	None
Also as noted above, two sets of DNA profile were generated from the black colour sweater of the accused Pawan.	None
One set of DNA profile found to be female in origin, consistent with the DNA profile of the prosecutrix other set found to be male in origin, consistent with the DNA profile of PW1.	None
Likewise, two sets of DNA profile were generated from the black colour sports jacket of accused Vinay, one of which matched the DNA profile of the prosecutrix and another one matched the DNA profile of PW1.	None
Likewise, two sets of DNA profile were generated from the jeans pant of accused Akshay, one of which matched the DNA profile of the prosecutrix and another one matched the DNA profile of PW1.	None
The result of DNA analysis and that of the DNA profile generated from bloodstained clothes of the accused found consistent with that of the victim is a strong piece of evidence incriminating the accused in the offence.	None
DNA profile generated from the blood samples of accused Ram Singh matched with the DNA profile generated from the rectal swab of the victim.	None
Blood as well as human spermatozoa was detected in the underwear of the accused Ram Singh (dead) and DNA profile generated therefrom was found to be female in origin, consistent with that of the victim.	None
Likewise, the DNA profile generated from the breast swab of the victim was found consistent with the DNA profile of the accused Akshay.	None
As discussed earlier, identification by DNA genetic finger print is almost hundred per cent precise and accurate.	None
The DNA profile generated from the bloodstained clothes of the accused and other articles are found consistent with the DNA profile of the victim and DNA profile of PW1 this is a strong piece of evidence against the accused.	None
In his evidence, PW45 Dr. B.K. Mohapatra has stated that once DNA profile is generated and found consistent with another DNA profile, the accuracy is hundred per cent and we find no reason to doubt his evidence.	None
As pointed out by the Courts below, the counsel for the defence did not raise any substantive ground to rebut the findings of DNA analysis and the findings through the examination of PW45.	None
The DNA report and the findings thereon, being scientifically accurate clearly establish the link involving the accused persons in the incident.	None
Conspiracy The accused have been charged with the offence of conspiracy to commit the offence of abduction, robbery dacoity, gang rape and unnatural sex, in pursuance of which the accused are alleged to have picked up the prosecutrix and PW1.	None
The charge sheet also states that in furtherance of conspiracy, the accused while committing the offence of gang rape on the prosecutrix intentionally inflicted bodily injury with iron rod and inserted the iron rod in the vital parts of her body with the common intention to cause her death.	None
The learned amicus Mr. Sanjay Hegde submitted that there is no specific evidence to prove that there was prior meeting of minds of the accused and that they had conspired together to commit grave offence by use of iron rod, resulting in the death of the victim and, therefore, insertion use of iron rod by any one of the accused cannot be attributed to all the accused in order to hold them guilty of the offence of murder.	None
The essentials of the offence of conspiracy and the manner in which it can be proved has been laid down by this Court through a catena of judicial pronouncements and I choose to briefly recapitulate the law on the point, so as to determine whether the offence is made out in this case or not.	None
Meeting of minds for committing an illegal act is sine qua non of the offence of conspiracy.	None
It is also obvious that meeting of minds, thereby resulting in formation of a consensus between the parties, can be a sudden act, spanning in a fraction of a minute.	None
It is neither necessary that each of the conspirators take active part in the commission of each and every conspiratorial act, nor it is necessary that all the conspirators must know each and every details of the conspiracy.	None
Essence of the offence of conspiracy is in agreement to break the law as aptly observed by this Court in Major E.G. Barsay v. State of Bombay (1962) 2	None
SCR 195.	None
So far as the English law on conspiracy is concerned, which is the source of Indian law, KENNY has succinctly stated that in modern times conspiracy is defined as an agreement of two or more persons to effect any unlawful purpose, whether as their ultimate aim or only as a means to it.	None
Stressing on the need of formation of an agreement, he has cautioned that conspiracy should not be misunderstood as a purely mental crime, comprising the concurrence of the intentions of the parties.	None
The meaning of an agreement, he has explained by quoting following words of Lord Chelmsford Agreement is an act in advancement of the intention which each person has conceived in his mind.	None
KENNY has further said that it is not mere intention, but the announcement and acceptance of intentions.	None
However, it is not necessary that an overt act is done the offence is complete as soon as the parties have agreed as to their unlawful purpose, although nothing has yet been settled as to the means and devices to be employed for effecting it.	None
Refer KENNY on Outlines of Criminal Law, 19th Edn., pp.	None
426427 The most important aspect of the offence of conspiracy is that apart from being a distinct statutory offence, all the parties to the conspiracy are liable for the acts of each other and as an exception to the general law in the case of conspiracy intent i.e. mens rea alone constitutes a crime.	None
As per Section 10 of the Evidence Act, once reasonable ground is shown for believing that two or more persons have conspired to commit an offence then, anything done by any one of them in reference to their common intention, is admissible against the others.	None
As held in State of Maharashtra v. Damu and Others (2000) 6 SCC 269 , the only condition for the application of the rule in Section 10 of the Evidence Act is that there must be reasonable ground to believe that two or more persons have conspired together to commit an offence.	None
The principles relating to the offence of criminal conspiracy and the standard of proof for establishing offence of conspiracy and the joint liability of the conspirators have been elaborately laid down in Shivnarayan Laxminarayan Joshi and Ors.	None
v. State of Maharashtra (1980) 2 SCC 465 Mohammad Usman Mohammad Hussain Maniyar and Ors.	None
v. State of Maharashtra (1981) 2 SCC 443 Kehar Singh and Ors.	None
v. State (Delhi Administration) (1988) 3 SCC 609 State of Maharashtra and Ors.	None
v. Som Nath Thapa and Ors.	None
(1996) 4 SCC 659 State (NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu Afsan Guru (2005) 11 SCC 600 State Through Superintendent of Police, CBI SIT v. Nalini and Ors.	None
(1999) 5 SCC 253 Yakub Abdul Razak Menon v. The State of Maharashtra, through CBI, Bombay (2013) 13 SCC 1.	None
Another significant aspect of the offence of criminal conspiracy is that it is very rare to find direct proof of it, because of the very fact that it is hatched in secrecy.	None
Unlike other offences, criminal conspiracy in most of the cases is proved by circumstantial evidence only.	None
It is extremely rare that direct evidence in proof of conspiracy can be forthcoming from wholly disinterested, quarters or from utter strangers.	None
Conspiracy is a matter of inference, deduced from words uttered, criminal acts of the accused done in furtherance of conspiracy.	None
(Vide Noor Mohammad Mohd.	None
Yusuf Momin v. State of Maharashtra (1970) 1 SCC 696 Firozuddin Basheeruddin and Ors.	None
v. State of Kerala (2001)	None
7 SCC 596 Ram Narain Poply v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Ors.	None
(2003) 3 SCC 641 Yogesh Sachin Jagdish Joshi v. State of Maharashtra (2008) 10 SCC 394 Pratapbhai Hamirbhai Solanki v. State of Gujarat and Anr.	None
(2013) 1 SCC 613 Chandra Prakash v. State of Rajasthan (2014) 8 SCC 340 etc.)	None
In Yogesh Sachin Jagdish Joshi v. State of Maharashtra (2008) 10 SCC 394 , this Court, after referring to the law laid down in several pronouncements, summarised the core principles of law of conspiracy in the following words Thus, it is manifest that the meeting of minds of two or more persons for doing an illegal act or an act by illegal means is sine qua non of the criminal conspiracy but it may not be possible to prove the agreement between them by direct proof.	None
Nevertheless, existence of the conspiracy and its objective can be inferred from the surrounding circumstances and the conduct of the accused.	None
But the incriminating circumstances must form a chain of events from which a conclusion about the guilt of the accused could be drawn.	None
It is well settled that an offence of conspiracy is a substantive offence and renders the mere agreement to commit an offence punishable even if an offence does not take place pursuant to the illegal agreement.	None
In the present case, there is ample evidence proving the acts, statements and circumstances, establishing firm ground to hold that the accused who were present in the bus were in prior concert to commit the offence of rape.	None
The prosecution has established that the accused were associated with each other.	None
The criminal acts done in furtherance of conspiracy, is established by the sequence of events and the conduct of the accused.	None
Existence of conspiracy and its objects could be inferred from the chain of events.	None
The chain of events described by the victim in her dying declarations coupled with the testimony of PW1 clearly establish that as soon as the complainant and the victim boarded the bus, the accused switched off the lights of the bus.	None
Few accused pinned down PW1 and others committed rape on the victim in the back side of the bus one after the other.	None
The accused inserted iron rods in the private parts of the prosecutrix, dragging her holding her hair and then threw her outside the bus.	None
The victim has also maintained in her dying declaration that the accused persons were exhorting that the victim has died and she be thrown out of the bus.	None
Ultimately, both the victim and the complainant were thrown out of the moving bus through the front door, having failed to throw them through the rear door.	None
The chain of action and the act of finally throwing the victim and PW1 out of the bus show that there was unity of object among the accused to commit rape and destroy the evidence thereon.460.	None
In this case, the existence of conspiracy is sought to be drawn by an inference from the circumstances (i) the accused did not allow any other passenger to board the bus after PW1 and the prosecutrix boarded the bus (ii) switching off the lights pinning PW1 down by some while others commit rape unnatural sex with the prosecutrix at the rear side of the bus (iii) exhortation by some of the accused that the victim be not left alive and (iv) their act of throwing the victim and PW1 out of the running bus without clothes in the wintery night of December.	None
Existence of conspiracy and its objects is inferred from the above circumstances and the words uttered.	None
In my view, the courts below have rightly drawn an inference that there was prior meeting of minds among the accused and they have rightly held that the prosecution has proved the existence of conspiracy to commit gang rape and other offences.	None
As already stated in the beginning, in achieving the goal of the conspiracy, several offences committed by some of the conspirators may not be known to others, still all the accused will be held guilty of the offence of criminal conspiracy.	None
The trial court has recorded that the victims complete alimentary canal from the level of duodenum upto 5 cm from anal sphincter was completely damaged.	None
It was beyond repair.	None
Causing of damage to jejunum is indicative of the fact that the rods were inserted through vagina and or anus upto the level of jejunum.	None
Further the septicemia was the direct result of internal multiple injuries.	None
Use of iron rod by one or more of the accused is sufficient to inculpate all the accused for the same.	None
In the present case, gang rape and use of iron rod caused grave injuries to victims vagina and intestines throwing her out of the bus in that vegetative state in chilled weather led to her death all this taking place in the course of same transaction and with the active involvement of all the accused is more than sufficient evidence to find the accused guilty of criminal conspiracy.	None
I, thus, affirm the findings of the courts below with regard to conviction of all the accused under Section 120B IPC and Section 302 read with Section 120B IPC.462.	None
Apart from considering the principles of law of conspiracy distinctly, if we consider it in the context of conspiracy to commit the offence of gang rape, unnatural sex etc., as is specifically relevant in the present case, we find that existence of common intent and joint liability is already implicit in the offence of gang rape.	None
Gang rape is dealt with in clause (g) of subsection (2) of Section 376 IPC read with Explanation 1.	None
As per Explanation 1 to Section 376 IPC, where a woman is raped by one or more in a group of persons acting in furtherance of their common intention, each of the persons shall be deemed to have committed gang rape and all of them shall be liable to be punished under subsection (2) of Section 376 IPC.	None
As per Explanation 1, by operation of deeming provision, a person who has not actually committed rape is deemed to have committed rape even if only one of the groups has committed rape in furtherance of the common intention.	None
While considering the scope of Section 376(2)(g)	None
IPC read with Explanation, in Ashok Kumar v. State of Haryana (2003) 2 SCC 143 , this Court held as under Charge against the appellant is under Section 376(2)(g) IPC.	None
In order to establish an offence under Section 376(2)(g) IPC, read with Explanation I thereto, the prosecution must adduce evidence to indicate that more than one accused had acted in concert and in such an event, if rape had been committed by even one, all the accused will be guilty irrespective of the fact that she had been raped by one or more of them and it is not necessary for the prosecution to adduce evidence of a completed act of rape by each one of the accused.	None
In other words, this provision embodies a principle of joint liability and the essence of that liability is the existence of common intention that common intention presupposes prior concert which may be determined from the conduct of offenders revealed during the course of action and it could arise and be formed suddenly, but, there must be meeting of minds.	None
It is not enough to have the same intention independently of each of the offenders.	None
In such cases, there must be criminal sharing marking out a certain measure of jointness in the commission of offence.	None
Emphasis added So far as the offence under Section 376 (2)(g) IPC, the sharing of common intention and the jointness in commission of rape is concerned, the same is established by the presence of all the accused in the bus their action in concert as established by the dying declaration of the prosecutrix and the evidence of PW1, presence of blood in the clothes of all the accused, DNA profile generated thereon being consistent with the DNA profile of the victim.464.	None
The prosecution has established the presence of the accused in the bus and the heinous act of gang rape committed on the prosecutrix by the accused by the ample evidence  by the multiple dying declaration of the victim and also by the evidence of PW1 and medical evidence and also by arrest and recovery of incriminating articles of the victim and that of PW1 complainant.	None
The scientific evidence in particular DNA analysis report clearly brings home the guilt of the accused.	None
106. Section 235(2), Criminal Procedure CodeOnce the conviction of the accused persons is affirmed, what remains to be decided is the question of appropriate punishment imposed on them.	None
On the aspect of sentencing, we were very effectively assisted by the learned Amicus Curiae.	None
Accused were convicted vide judgment and order dated 10.09.2013 and on the very next day of judgment i.e. on 11.09.2013, the arguments on sentencing were concluded.	None
Thereafter, a separate order on sentence was pronounced on 13.09.2013. Counsel for the appellants as well as the learned amicus Mr. Raju Ramachandran contended that no effective opportunity was given to the appellants to lead their defence on the point of sentencing as mandated under Section 235(2) Cr.	None
P.C. and each of the accused were not individually heard in person on the question of sentence.	None
Learned Amicus Curiae, Mr. Raju Ramachandran submitted only the counsel for the accused were heard and all the accused were treated alike irrespective of their individual background and were sentenced to death, which is in clear violation of the mandate of Section 235(2) Cr.	None
P.C.	None
It was submitted that Section 235(2) Cr.	None
P.C. is intended to give an opportunity to the accused to place before the Court all the relevant facts and material having a bearing on the question of sentence and, therefore, salutary provision should not have been treated as a mere formality by the trial court.	None
In support of his contention, the learned Amicus has placed reliance upon a number of judgments viz.  	None
(i) Dagdu Ors.	None
v. State of Maharashtra (1977) 3 SCC 68 (ii) Malkiat Singh and Ors.	None
v. State of Punjab (1991) 4 SCC 341 and (iii) Ajay Pandit alias Jagdish Dayabhai Patel and Anr.	None
v. State of Maharashtra (2012) 8 SCC 43.	None
Section 235 Cr.	None
P.C. deals with the judgments of acquittal or conviction.	None
Under Section 235(2) Cr.P.C., where the accused is convicted, save in cases of admonition or release on good conduct, the Judge shall hear the accused on the question of sentence and then pass sentence in accordance with law.	None
Section 235(2) Cr.P.C. imposes duty on the court to hear the accused on the question of sentence and then pass sentence on him in accordance with law.	None
The only exception to the said rule is created in case of applicability of Section 360 Cr.	None
P.C. i.e. when the court finds the accused eligible to be released on probation of good conduct or after admonition.	None
Section 354 Cr.	None
P.C. specifies the language and contents of judgment, while delivering the judgment in a criminal case.	None
Section 354(3) Cr.	None
P.C. deals with judgments where conviction is for an offence punishable with death penalty or in the alternative with imprisonment for life.	None
Section 354(3) Cr.	None
P.C. mandates that when the conviction is for an offence punishable with death or, in the alternative, with imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term of years, the judgment shall state the reasons for the sentence awarded, and in the case of sentence of death, the special reasons for such sentence.	None
The statutory duty to state special reasons under Section 354(3) Cr.P.C. can be meaningfully carried out only if the hearing on sentence under Section 235(2) Cr.	None
P.C. is effective and procedurally fair.	None
To afford an effective opportunity to the accused, the Court must hear on the question of sentence to know about (i) age of the accused (ii) background of the accused (iii) prior criminal antecedents, if any (iv) possibility of reformation, if any and (v) such other relevant factors.	None
The major deficiency in the complex criminal justice system is that important factors which have a bearing on sentence are not placed before the Court.	None
Resultantly, the Courts are constantly faced with the dilemma to impose an appropriate sentence.	None
In this context, hearing of the accused under Section 235(2) Cr.P.C. on the question of sentencing is a crucial exercise which is intended to enable the accused to place before the Court all the mitigating circumstances in his favour viz.	None
his social and economic backwardness, young age etc.	None
The mandate of Section 235(2) Cr.P.C. becomes more crucial when the accused is found guilty of an offence punishable with death penalty or with the life imprisonment.	None
It is wellsettled that Section 235(2) Cr.	None
P.C. is intended to give an opportunity of hearing to the prosecution as well as the accused on the question of sentence.	None
The Court while awarding the sentence has to take into consideration various factors having a bearing on the question of sentence.	None
In case, Section 235(2) Cr.P.C. is not complied with, as held in Dagdus case, the appellate Court can either send back the case to the Sessions Court for complying with Section 235(2) Cr.	None
P.C.	None
so as to enable the accused to adduce materials or, in order to avoid delay, the appellate Court may by itself give an opportunity to the parties in terms of Section 235(2) Cr.P.C. to produce the materials they wish to adduce instead of sending the matter back to the trial Court for hearing on sentence.	None
In the present case, we felt it appropriate to adopt the latter course and accordingly asked the counsel appearing for the appellants to file affidavits materials on the question of sentence.	None
Consequently, vide order dated 03.02.2017, we directed the learned counsel for the accused to place in writing, before this Court, their submissions, whatever they desired to place on the question of sentence.	None
In compliance with the order, Mr. M.L. Sharma, learned counsel on behalf of the accused A2 Mukesh and A5 Pawan and Mr. A.P. Singh, learned counsel on behalf of the accused Akshay Kumar Singh, Vinay Sharma and Pawan Gupta filed the individual affidavits of the accused.	None
Accused Mukesh (A2) in his affidavit has stated that he was picked up from his house at Karoli, Rajasthan and brought to Delhi and reiterated that he is innocent and he denied his involvement in the occurrence.	None
In their affidavits, accused Akshay Kumar Singh (A3), accused Vinay Sharma (A4) and accused Pawan Gupta (A5) submitted in their individual affidavits have stated that they hail from an ordinary poor background and are not much educated.	None
They have also stated that they have aged parents and other family members who are dependent on them and they are to be supported by them.	None
Accused have also stated that they have no criminal antecedents and that after their confinement in Tihar Jail they have maintained good behavior.	None
Learned counsel Mr. M.L. Sharma submitted that accused Mukesh (A2) is innocent and he has been falsely implicated only because he is the brother of accused Ram Singh.472.	None
Taking us through the affidavits filed by the accused, learned counsel	None
Mr. A.P.	None
Singh submitted that the accused namely Akshay Kumar Singh, Pawan Gupta and Vinay Sharma hail from very poor background and have got large families to support and have no criminal antecedents.	None
It has been contended that having regard to the fact that the three accused have no prior criminal antecedents and are not hardened criminals, the case will not fall under rarest of rare cases to affirm the death sentence.473.	None
Supplementing the affidavits filed by the accused, the learned amicus and senior counsel Mr. Raju Ramachandran and Mr. Sanjay Hegde submitted that assuming that the conviction of the appellants are confirmed, the accused who hail from very ordinary poor background and having no criminal antecedents, the death sentence be commuted to life imprisonment.	None
Question of awarding sentence is a matter of discretion and has to be exercised on consideration of circumstances aggravating or mitigating in the individual cases.	None
The courts are consistently faced with the situation where they are required to answer the new challenges and mould the sentence to meet those challenges.	None
Protection of society and deterring the criminal is the avowed object of law.	None
It is expected of the courts to operate the sentencing system as to impose such sentence which reflects the social conscience of the society.	None
While determining sentence in heinous crimes, Judges ought to weigh its impact on the society and impose adequate sentence considering the collective conscience or societys cry for justice.	None
While considering the imposition of appropriate punishment, courts should not only keep in view the rights of the criminal but also the rights of the victim and the society at large.	None
In State of M.P. v. Munna Choubey and Anr.	None
(2005) 2 SCC 710 , it was observed as under Therefore, undue sympathy to impose inadequate sentence would do more harm to the justice system to undermine the public confidence in the efficacy of law and society could not long endure under such serious threats.	None
It is, therefore, the duty of every court to award proper sentence having regard to the nature of the offence and the manner in which it was executed or committed etc.	None
This position was illuminatingly stated by this Court in Sevaka Perumal v. State of Tamil Naidu (1991) 3 SCC 471.	None
In Jashubha Bharatsinh Gohil and Ors.	None
v. State of Gujarat (1994) 4 SCC 353 , while upholding the award of death sentence, this Court held that sentencing process has to be stern where the circumstances demand so.	None
Relevant extract is as under 12The courts are constantly faced with the situation where they are required to answer to new challenges and mould the sentencing system to meet those challenges.	None
Protection of society and deterring the criminal is the avowed object of law and that is required to be achieved by imposing appropriate sentence.	None
The change in the legislative intendment relating to award of capital punishment notwithstanding, the opposition by the protagonist of abolition of capital sentence, shows that it is expected of the courts to so operate the sentencing system as to impose such sentence which reflects the social conscience of the society.	None
The sentencing process has to be stern where it should be.119.	None
Whether the Case falls under rarest of rare casesLaw relating to award of death sentence in India has evolved through massive policy reformsnationally as well as internationally and through a catena of judicial pronouncements, showcasing distinct phases of our view towards imposition of death penalty.	None
Undoubtedly, continuing prominence of reformative approach in sentencing and Indias international obligations have been majorly instrumental in facilitating a visible shift in courts view towards restricting imposition of death sentence.	None
While closing the shutter of deterrent approach of sentencing in India, the small window of award of death sentence was left open in the category of rarest of rare case in Bachan Singh v. State of Punjab (1980) 2 SCC 684 , by a Constitution Bench of this Court.	None
In Bachan Singh (supra), while upholding the constitutional validity of capital sentence, this Court revisited the law relating to death sentence at that point of time, by thoroughly discussing the law laid down in Jagmohan Singh v. State of U.P. (1973) 1 SCC 20 Rajendra Prasad v. State of U.P. (1979) 3	None
SCR 646 and other cases.	None
The principles laid down in Bachan Singhs case is that, normal rule is awarding of life sentence, imposition of death sentence being justified, only in rarest of rare case, when the option of awarding sentence of life imprisonment is unquestionably foreclosed.	None
By virtue of Bachan Singh (supra), life imprisonment became the rule and death sentence an exception.	None
The focus was shifted from crime to the crime and criminal i.e. now the nature and gravity of the crime needs to be analysed juxtaposed to the peculiar circumstances attending the societal existence of the criminal.	None
The principles laid down in Bachan Singhs case were considered in Machhi Singh and Ors.	None
v. State of Punjab (1983)	None
3 SCC 470 and was summarised as under In this background the guidelines indicated in Bachan Singhs case (supra) will have to be culled out and applied to the facts of each individual case where the question of imposing of death sentence arises.	None
The following propositions emerge from Bachan Singhs case (supra)(i) The extreme penalty of death need not be inflicted except in gravest cases of extreme culpability.(ii) Before opting for the death penalty the circumstances of the offender also require to be taken into consideration along with the circumstances of the crime.(iii) Life imprisonment is the rule and death sentence is an exception.	None
In other words death sentence must be imposed only when life imprisonment appears to be an altogether inadequate punishment having regard to the relevant circumstances of the crime, and provided, and only provided, the option to impose sentence of imprisonment for life cannot be conscientiously exercised having regard to the nature and circumstances of the crime and all the relevant circumstances.(iv)	None
A balance sheet of aggravating and mitigating circumstances has to be drawn up and in doing so the mitigating circumstances have to be accorded full weightage and a just balance has to be struck between the aggravating and the mitigating circumstances before the option is exercised.	None
In Machhi Singhs case, this Court took the view that in every case where death penalty is a question, a balance sheet of aggravating and mitigating circumstances must be drawn up before arriving at the decision.	None
The Court held that for practical application of the doctrine of rarest of rare case, it must be understood broadly in the background of five categories of cases crafted thereon that is Manner of commission of crime, Motive, Antisocial or socially abhorrent nature of the crime, Magnitude of crime, and Personality of victim of murder.	None
These five categories are elaborated in para nos.	None
32 to 37 as under The reasons why the community as a whole does not endorse the humanistic approach reflected in death sentenceinnocase doctrine are not far to seek.	None
In the first place, the very humanistic edifice is constructed on the foundation of reverence for life principle.	None
When a member of the community violates this very principle by killing another member, the society may not feel itself bound by the shackles of this doctrine.	None
Secondly, it has to be realized that every member of the community is able to live with safety without his or her own life being endangered because of the protective arm of the community and on account of the rule of law enforced by it.	None
The very existence of the rule of law and the fear of being brought to book operates as a deterrent for those who have no scruples in killing others if it suits their ends.	None
Every member of the community owes a debt to the community for this protection.	None
When ingratitude is shown instead of gratitude by killing a member of the community which protects the murderer himself from being killed, or when the community feels that for the sake of selfpreservation the killer has to be killed, the community may well withdraw the protection by sanctioning the death penalty.	None
But the community will not do so in every case.	None
It may do so in rarest of rare cases when its collective conscience is so shocked that it will expect the holders of the judicial power centre to inflict death penalty irrespective of their personal opinion as regards desirability or otherwise of retaining death penalty.	None
The community may entertain such a sentiment when the crime is viewed from the platform of the motive for, or the manner of commission of the crime, or the antisocial or abhorrent nature of the crime, such as for instanceI. Manner of commission of murder33.When the murder is committed in an extremely brutal, grotesque, diabolical, revolting or dastardly manner so as to arouse intense and extreme indignation of the community.	None
For instance,(i) when the house of the victim is set aflame with the end in view to roast him alive in the house.(ii) when the victim is subjected to inhuman acts of torture or cruelty in order to bring about his or her death.(iii) when the body of the victim is cut into pieces or his body is dismembered in a fiendish manner.	None
II.	None
Motive for commission of murder34.When the murder is committed for a motive which evinces total depravity and meanness.	None
For instance when (a) a hired assassin commits murder for the sake of money or reward (b) a coldblooded murder is committed with a deliberate design in order to inherit property or to gain control over property of a ward or a person under the control of the murderer or visavis whom the murderer is in a dominating position or in a position of trust, or (c) a murder is committed in the course for betrayal of the motherland.	None
III.	None
Antisocial or socially abhorrent nature of the crime35.(a)	None
When murder of a member of a Scheduled Caste or minority community etc., is committed not for personal reasons but in circumstances which arouse social wrath.	None
For instance when such a crime is committed in order to terrorize such persons and frighten them into fleeing from a place or in order to deprive them of, or make them surrender, lands or benefits conferred on them with a view to reverse past injustices and in order to restore the social balance.(b)	None
In cases of bride burning and what are known as dowry deaths or when murder is committed in order to remarry for the sake of extracting dowry once again or to marry another woman on account of infatuation.	None
IV.	None
Magnitude of crime36.When the crime is enormous in proportion.	None
For instance when multiple murders say of all or almost all the members of a family or a large number of persons of a particular caste, community, or locality, are committed.	None
V. Personality of victim of murder37.When the victim of murder is (a) an innocent child who could not have or has not provided even an excuse, much less a provocation, for murder (b) a helpless woman or a person rendered helpless by old age or infirmity (c) when the victim is a person visavis whom the murderer is in a position of domination or trust (d) when the victim is a public figure generally loved and respected by the community for the services rendered by him and the murder is committed for political or similar reasons other than personal reasons.	None
The principle laid down in Bachan Singh (supra) and Machhi Singh (supra) came to be discussed and applied in all the cases relating to imposition of death penalty for committing heinous offences.	None
However, lately, it was felt that the courts have not correctly applied the law laid down in Bachan Singh (supra) and Machhi Singh (supra), which has led to inconsistency in sentencing process in India also it was observed that the list of categories of murder crafted in Machhi Singh (supra), in which death sentence ought to be awarded are not exhaustive and needs to be given even more expansive adherence owing to changed legal scenario.	None
In Swamy Shradhananda alias Murali Manohar Mishra (2) v. State of Karnataka (2008) 13 SCC 767 a threeJudge Bench of this Court, observed as under in this regard In Machhi Singh the Court crafted the categories of murder in which the Community should demand death sentence for the offender with great care and thoughtfulness.	None
But the judgment in Machhi Singh was rendered on 20 July, 1983, nearly twenty five years ago, that is to say a full generation earlier.	None
A careful reading of the Machhi Singh categories will make it clear that the classification was made looking at murder mainly as an act of maladjusted individual criminal(s).	None
In 1983 the country was relatively free from organised and professional crime.	None
Abduction for Ransom and Gang Rape and murders committed in course of those offences were yet to become a menace for the society compelling the Legislature to create special slots for those offences in the Penal Code.	None
At the time of Machhi Singh, Delhi had not witnessed the infamous Sikh carnage.	None
There was no attack on the countrys Parliament.	None
There were no bombs planted by terrorists killing completely innocent people, men, women and children in dozens with sickening frequency.	None
There were no private armies.	None
There were no mafia cornering huge government contracts purely by muscle power.	None
There were no reports of killings of social activists and whistle blowers.	None
There were no reports of custodial deaths and rape and fake encounters by police or even by armed forces.	None
These developments would unquestionably find a more pronounced reflection in any classification if one were to be made today.	None
Relying upon the observations in Bachan Singh, therefore, we respectfully wish to say that even though the categories framed in Machhi Singh provide very useful guidelines, nonetheless those cannot be taken as inflexible, absolute or immutable.	None
Further, even in those categories, there would be scope for flexibility as observed in Bachan Singh itself.	None
A milestone in the sentencing policy is the concept of life imprisonment till the remainder of life evolved in Swamy Shradhananda (2)(supra).	None
In this case, a man committed murder of his wife for usurping her property in a coldblooded, calculated and diabolic manner.	None
The trial court convicted the accused and death penalty was imposed on him which was affirmed by the High Court.	None
Though the conviction was affirmed by this Court also on the point of sentencing, the views of a twoJudge Bench of this Court, in Swamy Shradhananda v. State of Karnataka (2007) 12 SCC 282 differed, and consequently, the matter was listed before a threeJudge Bench, wherein a mid way was carved.	None
The threeJudge Bench, was of the view that even though the murder was diabolic, presence of certain circumstances in favour of the accused, viz.	None
no mental or physical pain being inflicted on the victim, confession of the accused before the High Court etc., made them reluctant to award death sentence.	None
However, the Court also realised that award of life imprisonment, which euphemistically means imprisonment for a term of 14 years (consequent to exercise of power of commutation by the executive), would be equally disproportionate punishment to the crime committed.	None
Hence, in Swamy Shradhananda (2) (supra) the Court directed that the accused shall not be released from the prison till the rest of his life.	None
Relevant extract from the judgment reads as under The matter may be looked at from a slightly different angle.	None
The issue of sentencing has two aspects.	None
A sentence may be excessive and unduly harsh or it may be highly disproportionately inadequate.	None
When an appellant comes to this court carrying a death sentence awarded by the trial court and confirmed by the High Court, this Court may find, as in the present appeal, that the case just falls short of the rarest of the rare category and may feel somewhat reluctant in endorsing the death sentence.	None
But at the same time, having regard to the nature of the crime, the Court may strongly feel that a sentence of life imprisonment that subject to remission normally works out to a term of 14 years would be grossly disproportionate and inadequate.	None
What then the Court should do?	None
If the Courts option is limited only to two punishments, one a sentence of imprisonment, for all intents and purposes, of not more than 14 years and the other death, the court may feel tempted and find itself nudged into endorsing the death penalty.	None
Such a course would indeed be disastrous.	None
A far more just, reasonable and proper course would be to expand the options and to take over what, as a matter of fact, lawfully belongs to the court, i.e., the vast hiatus between 14 years imprisonment and death.	None
It needs to be emphasized that the Court would take recourse to the expanded option primarily because in the facts of the case, the sentence of 14 years imprisonment would amount to no punishment at all.	None
After referring to a catena of judicial pronouncements post Bachan Singh (supra) and Machhi Singh (supra), in the case of Ramnaresh and Ors.	None
v. State of Chhattisgarh (2012) 4 SCC 257 , this Court, tried to lay down a nearly exhaustive list of aggravating and mitigating circumstances.	None
It would be apposite to refer to the same here Aggravating circumstances(1)	None
The offences relating to the commission of heinous crimes like murder, rape, armed dacoity, kidnapping, etc. by the accused with a prior record of conviction for capital felony or offences committed by the person having a substantial history of serious assaults and criminal convictions.(2)	None
The offence was committed while the offender was engaged in the commission of another serious offence.(3)	None
The offence was committed with the intention to create a fear psychosis in the public at large and was committed in a public place by a weapon or device which clearly could be hazardous to the life of more than one person.(4)	None
The offence of murder was committed for ransom or like offences to receive money or monetary benefits.(5)	None
Hired killings.(6)	None
The offence was committed outrageously for want only while involving inhumane treatment and torture to the victim.(7)	None
The offence was committed by a person while in lawful custody.(8)	None
The murder or the offence was committed to prevent a person lawfully carrying out his duty like arrest or custody in a place of lawful confinement of himself or another.	None
For instance, murder is of a person who had acted in lawful discharge of his duty Under Section 43 Code of Criminal Procedure.	None
When the crime is enormous in proportion like making an attempt of murder of the entire family or members of a particular community.	None
When the victim is innocent, helpless or a person relies upon the trust of relationship and social norms, like a child, helpless woman, a daughter or a niece staying with a father uncle and is inflicted with the crime by such a trusted person.(9)	None
When murder is committed for a motive which evidences total depravity and meanness.(10)	None
When there is a coldblooded murder without provocation.(11)	None
The crime is committed so brutally that it pricks or shocks not only the judicial conscience but even the conscience of the society.	None
Mitigating circumstances(1)	None
The manner and circumstances in and under which the offence was committed, for example, extreme mental or emotional disturbance or extreme provocation in contradistinction to all these situations in normal course.(2) The age of the accused is a relevant consideration but not a determinative factor by itself.(3)	None
The chances of the accused of not indulging in commission of the crime again and the probability of the accused being reformed and rehabilitated.(4)	None
The condition of the accused shows that he was mentally defective and the defect impaired his capacity to appreciate the circumstances of his criminal conduct.(5)	None
The circumstances which, in normal course of life, would render such a behaviour possible and could have the effect of giving rise to mental imbalance in that given situation like persistent harassment or, in fact, leading to such a peak of human behaviour that, in the facts and circumstances of the case, the accused believed that he was morally justified in committing the offence.(6) Where the court upon proper appreciation of evidence is of the view that the crime was not committed in a preordained manner and that the death resulted in the course of commission of another crime and that there was a possibility of it being construed as consequences to the commission of the primary crime.(7) Where it is absolutely unsafe to rely upon the testimony of a sole eyewitness though the prosecution has brought home the guilt of the accused.	None
Similarly, this Court in Sangeet and Another v. State of Haryana (2013) 2 SCC 452 , extensively analysed the evolution of sentencing policy in India and stressed on the need for further evolution.	None
In para (77), this Court emphasized on making the sentencing process a principled one, rather than Judgecentric one and held that a relook is needed at some conclusions that have been taken for granted and we need to continue the development of the law on the basis of experience gained over the years and views expressed in various decisions of this Court.	None
As dealing with sentencing, courts have thus applied the Crime Test, Criminal Test and the Rarest of the Rare Test, the tests examine whether the society abhors such crimes and whether such crimes shock the conscience of the society and attract intense and extreme indignation of the community.	None
Courts have further held that where the victims are helpless women, children or old persons and the accused displayed depraved mentality, committing crime in a diabolic manner, the accused should be shown no remorse and death penalty should be awarded.	None
Reference may be made to Holiram Bordoloi v. State of Assam (2005) 3 SCC 793 Para 1517, Ankush Maruti Shinde and Ors.	None
v. State of Maharashtra (2009) 6 SCC 667 ( para 3134), Kamta Tiwari v. State of Madhya Pradesh (1996) 6 SCC 250 ( para 78), State of U.P. v. Satish (2005) 3 SCC 114 ( para 2431), Sundar alias Sundarajan v. State by Inspector of Police and Anr.	None
(2013) 3 SCC 215 ( para 3638, 4242.7, 43), Sevaka Perumal and Anr.	None
v. State of Tamil Nadu (1991) 3 SCC 471 ( para 810, 12), Mohfil Khan and Anr.	None
v. State of Jharkhand (2015) 1 SCC 67 ( para 6365).	None
Even the young age of the accused is not a mitigating circumstance for commutation to life, as has been held in the case of Bhagwan Swarup v. State of U.P. (1971) 3 SCC 759 ( para 5), Deepak Rai v. State of Bihar (2013) 10 SCC 421 ( para 91100) and Shabhnam v. State of Uttar Pradesh (2015) 6 SCC 632 ( para 36).	None
Let me now refer to a few cases of rape and murder where this Court has confirmed the sentence of death.	None
In Molai Anr.	None
v. State of M.P. (1999) 9 SCC 581 , death sentence awarded to both the accused for committing offences under Sections 376 (2)(g) IPC, 302 read with Section 34 IPC and 201 IPC, was confirmed by this Court.	None
The accused had committed gang rape on the victim, strangulated her thereafter and threw away her body into the septic tank with the cycle, after causing stab injuries.	None
It was held as under 36It cannot be overlooked that Naveen, a 16 year old girl, was preparing for her 10th examination at her house and suddenly both the accused took advantage of she being alone in the house and committed a most shameful act of rape.	None
The accused did not stop there but they strangulated her by using her undergarment and thereafter took her to the septic tank alongwith the cycle and caused injuries with a sharp edged weapon.	None
The accused did not even stop there but they exhibited the criminality in their conduct by throwing the dead body into the septic tank totally disregarding the respect for a human dead body.	None
Learned Counsel for the accused (appellants) could not point any mitigating circumstances from the record of the case to justify the reduction of sentence of either of the accused.	None
In a case of this nature, in our considered view, the capital punishment to both the accused is the only proper punishment and we see no reason to take a different view than the one taken by the courts below.	None
In Bantu v. State of Uttar Pradesh (2008) 11 SCC 113 , the victim aged about five years was not only raped, but was murdered in a diabolic manner.	None
The Court awarded extreme punishment of death, holding that for deciding just and appropriate sentence to be awarded for an offence, the aggravating and mitigating factors and circumstances in which a crime has been committed must be delicately balanced by the Court in a dispassionate manner.	None
In Ankush Maruti Shinde and Ors.	None
v. State of Maharashtra (2009) 6 SCC 667 , concerned accused were found guilty of offences under Sections 307 IPC, 376(2)(g) IPC and 397 read with 395 and 396 of IPC.	None
This Court declined to interfere with the concurrent findings of the courts below and upheld death penalty awarded to the accused, taking into account the brutality of the incident, tender age of the deceased, and the fact of a minor girl being mercilessly gang raped and then put to death.	None
The court also noted that there was no provocation from the deceaseds side and the two surviving eye witnesses had fully corroborated the case of the prosecution.	None
In Mehboob Batcha and Ors.	None
v. State rep.	None
by Supdt. of Police (2011) 7 SCC 45 , accused were policemen who had wrongfully confined one Nandagopal in police custody in Police Station Annamalai Nagar on suspicion of theft from 30.05.1992 till 02.06.1992 and had beaten him to death there with lathis, and had also gang raped his wife Padmini in a barbaric manner.	None
This Court could not award death penalty due to omission of the courts below in framing charge under Section 302, IPC.	None
However, the observations made by this Court are worth quoting here Bane hain ahalehawas muddai bhi munsif bhi Kise vakeel karein kisse munsifi chaahen  Faiz Ahmed Faiz1.	None
If ever there was a case which cried out for death penalty it is this one, but it is deeply regrettable that not only was no such penalty imposed but not even a charge under Section 302 IPC was framed against the accused by the Courts below9.We have held in Satya Narain Tiwari Jolly and Anr.	None
v. State of U.P. (2010) 13 SCC 689 and in Sukhdev Singh v. State of Punjab, (2010)	None
13 SCC 656 that crimes against women are not ordinary crimes committed in a fit of anger or for property.	None
They are social crimes.	None
They disrupt the entire social fabric, and hence they call for harsh punishment In Mohd.	None
Mannan Abdul Mannan v. State of Bihar (2011) 5 SCC 317	None
, this Court upheld award of death sentence to a 43 year old accused who brutally raped and murdered a minor girl, while holding a position of trust.	None
Relevant considerations of the Court while affirming the death sentence are extracted as under 26The postmortem report shows various injuries on the face, nails and body of the child.	None
These injuries show the gruesome manner in which she was subjected to rape.	None
The victim of crime is an innocent child who did not provide even an excuse, much less a provocation for murder.	None
Such cruelty towards a young child is appalling.	None
The Appellant had stooped so low as to unleash his monstrous self on the innocent, helpless and defenseless child.	None
This act no doubt had invited extreme indignation of the community and shocked the collective conscience of the society.	None
Their expectation from the authority conferred with the power to adjudicate, is to inflict the death sentence which is natural and logical.	None
We are of the opinion that Appellant is a menace to the society and shall continue to be so and he can not be reformed.	None
We have no manner of doubt that the case in hand falls in the category of the rarest of the rare cases and the trial court had correctly inflicted the death sentence which had rightly been confirmed by the High Court.	None
In Shivaji Dadya Shankar Alhat v. State of Maharashtra (2008) 15 SCC 269 Rajendra Pralhadrao Wasnik v. The State of Maharashtra (2012) 4 SCC 37 award of death penalty in case of rape and murder was upheld, finding the incident brutal and accused a menace for the society.	None
In Dhananjoy Chatterjee alias Dhana v. State of W.B. (1994) 2 SCC 220 , a security guard who was entrusted with the security of a residential apartment had raped and murdered an eighteen year old inhabitant of one of the flats in the said apartment, between 5.30 p.m. and 5.45 p.m.	None
The entire case of the prosecution was based on circumstantial evidence.	None
However, Court found that it was a fit case for imposing death penalty.	None
Following observation of the Court while imposing death penalty is worth quoting In recent years, the rising crime rateparticularly violent crime against women has made the criminal sentencing by the courts a subject of concern.	None
Today there are admitted disparities.	None
Some criminals get very harsh sentences while many receive grossly different sentence for an essentially equivalent crime and a shockingly large number even go unpunished, thereby encouraging the criminal and in the ultimate making justice suffer by weakening the systems credibility.	None
Of course, it is not possible to lay down any cut and dry formula relating to imposition of sentence but the object of sentencing should be to see that the crime does not go unpunished and the victim of crime as also the society has the satisfaction that justice has been done to it.	None
In imposing sentences, in the absence of specific legislation, Judges must consider variety of factors and after considering all those factors and taking an overall view of the situation, impose sentence which they consider to be an appropriate one.	None
Aggravating factors cannot be ignored and similarly mitigating circumstances have also to be taken into consideration.15.	None
In our opinion, the measure of punishment in a given case must depend upon the atrocity of the crime the conduct of the criminal and the defenceless and unprotected state of the victim.	None
Imposition of appropriate punishment is the manner in which the courts respond to the societys cry for justice against the criminals.	None
Justice demands that courts should impose punishment fitting to the crime so that the courts reflect public abhorrence of the crime.	None
The courts must not only keep in view the rights of the criminal but also the rights of the victim of crime and the society at large while considering imposition of appropriate punishment.	None
(emphasis added)	None
In a landmark judgment Shankar Kisanrao Khade v. State of Maharashtra (2013) 5 SCC 546 , Justice Madan B. Lokur (Concurring) after analysing various cases of rape and murder, wherein death sentence was confirmed by this Court, in para (122) briefly laid down the grounds which weighed with the Court in confirming the death penalty and the same read as under The principal reasons for confirming the death penalty in the above cases include(1)	None
the cruel, diabolic, brutal, depraved and gruesome nature of the crime (Jumman Khan v. State of U.P. (1991) 1 SCC 752 , Dhananjoy Chatterjee v. State of W.B. (1994) 2 SCC 220 , Laxman Naik v. State of Orissa (1994) 3 SCC 381 , Kamta Tewari v. State of M.P. (1996) 6 SCC 250 , Nirmal Singh v. State of Haryana (1999) 3 SCC 670 , Jai Kumar v. State of M.P. (1999) 5 SCC 1 , State of U.P. v. Satish (2005) 3 SCC 114 , Bantu v. State of U.P. (2008) 11 SCC 113 , Ankush Maruti Shinde v. State of Maharashtra (2009) 6 SCC 667 , B.A. Umesh v. State of Karnataka (2011) 3 SCC 85 , Mohd.	None
Mannan v. State of Bihar (2011) 5 SCC 317 and Rajendra Pralhadrao Wasnik v. State of Maharashtra (2012) 4 SCC 37 )(2) the crime results in public abhorrence, shocks the judicial conscience or the conscience of society or the community (Dhananjoy Chatterjee (1994) 2 SCC 220 , Jai Kumar (1999) 5 SCC 1 , Ankush Maruti Shinde (2009) 6 SCC 667 and Mohd.	None
Mannan (2011) 5 SCC 317 )(3) the reform or rehabilitation of the convict is not likely or that he would be a menace to society (Jai Kumar(1999)	None
5 SCC 1 , B.A. Umesh (2011) 3 SCC 85 and Mohd.	None
Mannan (2011) 5 SCC 317 )(4) the victims were defenceless (Dhananjoy Chatterjee (1994) 2 SCC 220 , Laxman Naik (1994) 3 SCC 381 , Kamta Tewari (1996) 6 SCC 250 , Ankush Maruti Shinde (2009) 6 SCC 667 , Mohd.	None
Mannan (2011) 5 SCC 317 and Rajendra Pralhadrao Wasnik (2012) 4 SCC 37 )(5) the crime was either unprovoked or that it was premeditated (Dhananjoy Chatterjee (1994) 2 SCC 220 , Laxman Naik (1994) 3 SCC 381 , Kamta Tewari (1996) 6 SCC 250 , Nirmal Singh (1999) 3 SCC 670 , Jai Kumar (1999) 5 SCC 1 , Ankush Maruti Shinde (2009) 6 SCC 667 , B.A. Umesh (2011) 3 SCC 85 and Mohd.	None
Mannan (2011) 5 SCC 317 )	None
and in three cases the antecedents or the prior history of the convict was taken into consideration (Shivu v. High Court of Karnataka (2007) 4 SCC 713 , B.A. Umesh (2011) 3 SCC 85 and Rajendra Pralhadrao Wasnik (2012) 4 SCC 37 ).	None
We also refer to para (106) of Shankar Kisanrao Khades case where Justice Madan B. Lokur (Concurring) has exhaustively analysed the case of rape and murder where death penalty was converted to that of imprisonment for life and some of the factors that weighed with the Court in such commutation.	None
Para (106) reads as under A study of the above cases suggests that there are several reasons, cumulatively taken, for converting the death penalty to that of imprisonment for life.	None
However, some of the factors that have had an influence in commutation include(1)	None
the young age of the accused Amit v. State of Maharashtra (2003) 8 SCC 93 aged 20 years, Rahul v. State of Maharashtra (2005) 10 SCC 322 aged 24 years, Santosh Kumar Singh v. State (2010) 9 SCC 747 aged 24 years, Rameshbhai Chandubhai Rathod (2) (2011)	None
2 SCC 764 aged 28 years and Amit v. State of U.P.(2012) 4 SCC 107 aged 28 years(2)	None
the possibility of reforming and rehabilitating the accused (in Santosh Kumar Singh (2010) 9 SCC 747 and Amit v. State of U.P.(2012) 4 SCC 107 the accused, incidentally, were young when they committed the crime)(3) the accused had no prior criminal record (Nirmal Singh (1999) 3 SCC 670 , Raju (2001) 9 SCC 50 , Bantu (2001) 9 SCC 615 , Amit v. State of Maharashtra (2003) 8 SCC 93 , Surendra Pal Shivbalakpal (2005) 3 SCC 127 , Rahul (2005) 10 SCC 322 and Amit v. State of U.P (2012) 4 SCC 107 )(4) the accused was not likely to be a menace or threat or danger to society or the community (Nirmal Singh (1999) 3 SCC 670 , Mohd.	None
Chaman (2001) 2 SCC 28 , Raju (2001) 9 SCC 50 , Bantu (2001) 9 SCC 615 , Surendra Pal Shivbalakpal (2005) 3 SCC 127 , Rahul (2005) 10 SCC 322 and Amit v. State of U.P. (2012) 4 SCC 107 ).(5)	None
a few other reasons need to be mentioned such as the accused having been acquitted by one of the courts (State of T.N. v. Suresh (1998) 2 SCC 372 , State of Maharashtra v. Suresh (2000) 1 SCC 471 , State of Maharashtra v. Bharat Fakira Dhiwar (2002) 1 SCC 622 , State of Maharashtra v. Mansingh (2005)	None
3 SCC 131 and Santosh Kumar Singh (2010) 9 SCC 747 )(6) the crime was not premeditated (Kumudi Lal v. State of U.P. (1999) 4 SCC 108 , Akhtar v. State of U.P. (1999) 6 SCC 60 , Raju v. State of Haryana (2001) 9 SCC 50 and Amrit Singh v. State of Punjab (2006) 12 SCC 79 )(7) the case was one of circumstantial evidence (Mansingh (2005) 3 SCC 131 and Bishnu Prasad Sinha (2007) 11 SCC 467 ).In	None
one case, commutation was ordered since there was apparently no exceptional feature warranting a death penalty (Kumudi Lal (1999) 4 SCC 108 ) and in another case because the trial court had awarded life sentence but the High Court enhanced it to death (Haresh Mohandas Rajput (2011) 12 SCC 56 ).	None
In the same judgment in Shankar Kisanrao Khade v. State of Maharashtra (2013) 5 SCC 546 , Justice Madan B. Lokur (concurring) while elaborately analysing the question of imposing death penalty in specific facts and circumstances of that particular case, concerning rape and murder of a minor, discussed the sentencing policy of India, with special reference to execution of the sentences imposed by the Judiciary.	None
The Court noted the prima facie difference in the standard of yardsticks adopted by two organs of the government viz.	None
Judiciary and the Executive in treating the life of convicts convicted of an offence punishable with death and recommended consideration of Law Commission of India over this issue.	None
The relevant excerpt from the said judgment, highlighting the inconsistency in the approach of Judiciary and Executive in the matter of sentencing, is as under It seems to me that though the Courts have been applying the rarest of rare principle, the Executive has taken into consideration some factors not known to the Courts for converting a death sentence to imprisonment for life.	None
It is imperative, in this regard, since we are dealing with the lives of people (both the accused and the rapemurder victim) that the Courts lay down a jurisprudential basis for awarding the death penalty and when the alternative is unquestionably foreclosed so that the prevailing uncertainty is avoided.	None
Death penalty and its execution should not become a matter of uncertainty nor should converting a death sentence into imprisonment for life become a matter of chance.	None
Perhaps the Law Commission of India can resolve the issue by examining whether death penalty is a deterrent punishment or is retributive justice or serves an incapacitative goal.	None
In Shankar Kisanraos case, it was observed by Justice Madan B. Lokur that Dhananjay Chatterjees case was perhaps the only case where death sentence imposed on the accused, who was convicted for rape was executed.	None
Another significant development in the sentencing policy of India is the victimcentric approach, clearly recognised in Machhi Singh (Supra) and reemphasized in a plethora of cases.	None
It has been consistently held that the courts have a duty towards society and that the punishment should be corresponding to the crime and should act as a soothing balm to the suffering of the victim and their family.	None
Ref Gurvail Singh Gala and Anr.	None
v. State of Punjab (2013) 2 SCC 713 Mohfil Khan and Anr.	None
v. State of Jharkhand (2015) 1 SCC 67 Purushottam Dashrath Borate and Anr.	None
v. State of Maharashtra (2015)	None
6 SCC 652 .	None
The Courts while considering the issue of sentencing are bound to acknowledge the rights of the victims and their family, apart from the rights of the society and the accused.	None
The agony suffered by the family of the victims cannot be ignored in any case.	None
In Mohfil Khan (supra), this Court specifically observed that it would be the paramount duty of the Court to provide justice to the incidental victims of the crime  the family members of the deceased persons.	None
The law laid down above, clearly sets forth the sentencing policy evolved over a period of time.	None
I now proceed to analyse the facts and circumstances of the present case on the anvil of abovestated principles.	None
To be very precise, the nature and the manner of the act committed by the accused, and the effect it casted on the society and on the victims family, are to be weighed against the mitigating circumstances stated by the accused and the scope of their reform, so as to reach a definite reasoned conclusion as to what would be appropriate punishment in the present case death sentence, life sentence commutable to 14 years or life imprisonment for the rest of the life.	None
The question would be whether the present case could be one of the rarest of rare cases warranting death penalty.	None
Before the court proceed to make a choice whether to award death sentence or life imprisonment, the court is to draw up a balancesheet of aggravating and mitigating circumstances attending to the commission of the offence and then strike a balance between those aggravating and mitigating circumstances.	Issue
Two questions are to be asked and answered (i) Is there something uncommon about the crimes which regard sentence of imprisonment for life inadequate (ii) Whether there is no alternative punishment suitable except death sentence.	Issue
Where a crime is committed with extreme brutality and the collective conscience of the society is shocked, courts must award death penalty, irrespective of their personal opinion as regards desirability of death penalty.	Issue
By not imposing a death sentence in such cases, the courts may do injustice to the society at large.	None
We are here concerned with the award of an appropriate sentence in case of brutal gangrape and murder of a young lady, involving most gruesome and barbaric act of inserting iron rods in the private parts of the victim.	None
The act was committed in connivance and collusion of six who were on a notorious spree running a bus, showcasing as a public transport, with the intent of attracting passengers and committing crime with them.	None
The victim and her friend were picked up from the Munirka bus stand with the mala fide intent of ravishing and torturing her.	None
The accused not only abducted the victim, but gangraped her, committed unnatural offence by compelling her for oral sex, bit her lips, cheeks, breast and caused horrifying injuries to her private parts by inserting iron rod which ruptured the vaginal rectum, jejunum and rectum.	None
The diabolical manner in which crime was committed leaves one startled as to the pervert mental state of the inflictor.	None
On top of it, after having failed to kill her on the spot, by running the bus over her, the victim was thrown half naked in the wintery night, with grievous injuries.	None
If we look at the aggravating circumstances in the present case, following factors would emerge Diabolic nature of the crime and the manner of committing crime, as reflected in committing gangrape with the victim forcing her to perform oral sex, injuries on the body of the deceased by way of bite marks insertion of iron rod in her private parts and causing fatal injuries to her private parts and other internal injuries pulling out her internal organs which caused sepsis and ultimately led to her death throwing the victim and the complainant (PW1) naked in the cold wintery night and trying to run the bus over them.	None
The brazenness and coldness with which the acts were committed in the evening hours by picking up the deceased and the victim from a public space, reflects the threat to which the society would be posed to, in case the accused are not appropriately punished.	None
More so, it reflects that there is no scope of reform.	None
The horrific acts reflecting the inhuman extent to which the accused could go to satisfy their lust, being completely oblivious, not only to the norms of the society, but also to the norms of humanity.	None
The acts committed so shook the conscience of the society.	None
As noted earlier, on the aspect of sentencing, seeking reduction of death sentence to life imprisonment, three of the convicts appellants namely A3 Akshay, A4 Vinay and A5 Pawan placed on record, through their individual affidavits dated 23.03.2017, following mitigating circumstances Family circumstances such as poverty and rural background,(b)	None
Young age,(c)	None
Current family situation including age of parents, ill health of family members and their responsibilities towards their parents and other family members,(d)	None
Absence of criminal antecedents,(e)	None
Conduct in jail, and(f) Likelihood of reformation.	None
In his affidavit, accused Mukesh reiterated his innocence and only pleaded that he is falsely implicated in the case.	None
In Purushottam Dashrath Borate and Anr.	None
v. State of Maharashtra (2015) 6 SCC 652 , this Court held that age of the accused or family background of the accused or lack of criminal antecedents cannot be said to be the mitigating circumstance.	None
It cannot also be considered as mitigating circumstance, particularly taking into consideration, the nature of heinous offence and cold and calculated manner in which it was committed by the accused persons.	None
Societys reasonable expectation is that deterrent punishment commensurate with the gravity of the offence be awarded.	None
When the crime is brutal, shocking the collective conscience of the community, sympathy in any form would be misplaced and it would shake the confidence of public in the administration of criminal justice system.	None
As held in Om Prakash v. State of Haryana (1999) 3 SCC 19 , the Court must respond to the cry of the society and to settle what would be a deterrent punishment for what was an apparently abominable crime.	None
Bearing in mind the above principles governing the sentencing policy, I have considered all the aggravating and mitigating circumstances in the present case.	None
Imposition of appropriate punishment is the manner in which the courts respond to the societys cry for justice against the crime.	None
Justice demands that the courts should impose punishments befitting the crime so that it reflects public abhorrence of the crime.	None
Crimes like the one before us cannot be looked with magnanimity.	None
Factors like young age of the accused and poor background cannot be said to be mitigating circumstances.	None
Likewise, postcrime remorse and postcrime good conduct of the accused, the statement of the accused as to their background and family circumstances, age, absence of criminal antecedents and their good conduct in prison, in my view, cannot be taken as mitigating circumstances to take the case out of the category of rarest of rare cases.	None
The circumstances stated by the accused in their affidavits are too slender to be treated as mitigating circumstances.503.	None
In the present case, there is not even a hint of hesitation in my mind with respect to the aggravating circumstances outweighing the mitigating circumstances and I do not find any justification to convert the death sentence imposed by the courts below to life imprisonment for the rest of the life.	None
The gruesome offences were committed with highest viciousness.	None
Human lust was allowed to take such a demonic form.	None
The accused may not be hardened criminals but the cruel manner in which the gangrape was committed in the moving bus iron rods were inserted in the private parts of the victim and the coldness with which both the victims were thrown naked in cold wintery night of December, shocks the collective conscience of the society.	None
The present case clearly comes within the category of rarest of rare case where the question of any other punishment is unquestionably foreclosed.	None
If at all there is a case warranting award of death sentence, it is the present case.	None
If the dreadfulness displayed by the accused in committing the gangrape, unnatural sex, insertion of iron rod in the private parts of the victim does not fall in the rarest of rare category, then one may wonder what else would fall in that category.	None
On these reasoning recorded by me, I concur with the majority in affirming the death sentence awarded to the accused persons.504.	None
The incident of gangrape on the night of 16.12.2012 in the capital sparked public protest not only in Delhi but nationwide.	None
We live in a civilized society where law and order is supreme and the citizens enjoy inviolable fundamental human rights.	None
But when the incident of gangrape like the present one surfaces, it causes ripples in the conscience of society and serious doubts are raised as to whether we really live in a civilized society and whether both men and women feel the same sense of liberty and freedom which they should have felt in the ordinary course of a civilized society, driven by rule of law.	None
Certainly, whenever such grave violations of human dignity come to fore, an unknown sense of insecurity and helplessness grabs the entire society, women in particular, and the only succour people look for, is the State to take command of the situation and remedy it effectively.505.	None
The statistics of National Crime Records Bureau which I have indicated in the beginning of my judgment show that despite the progress made by women in education and in various fields and changes brought in ideas of womens rights, respect for women is on the decline and crimes against women are on the increase.	None
Offences against women are not a womens issue alone but, human rights issue.	None
Increased rate of crime against women is an area of concern for the lawmakers and it points out an emergent need to study in depth the root of the problem and remedy the same through a strict law and order regime.	None
There are a number of legislations and numerous penal provisions to punish the offenders of violence against women.	None
However, it becomes important to ensure that gender justice does not remain only on paper.506.	None
We have a responsibility to set good values and guidance for posterity.	None
In the words of great scholar, Swami Vivekananda, the best thermometer to the progress of a nation is its treatment of its women.	None
Crime against women not only affects womens self esteem and dignity but also degrades the pace of societal development.	None
I hope that this gruesome incident in the capital and death of this young woman will be an eyeopener for a mass movement to end violence against women and respect for women and her dignity and sensitizing public at large on gender justice.	None
Every individual, irrespective of his her gender must be willing to assume the responsibility in fight for gender justice and also awaken public opinion on gender justice.	None
Public at large, in particular men, are to be sensitized on gender justice.	None
The battle for gender justice can be won only with strict implementation of legislative provisions, sensitization of public, taking other proactive steps at all levels for combating violence against women and ensuring widespread attitudinal changes and comprehensive change in the existing mind set.	None
We hope that this incident will pave the way for the same.	None
