 Leave granted.	None
These appeals are directed against the judgment and order passed by the High Court of Delhi in FAO (OS)	Issue
Nos. 116 and 118 of 1995, dated 04.12.2008, whereby and whereunder, the learned Division Bench has allowed FAO (OS)	Issue
Nos. 116 of 1995 and has set aside the judgment and order passed by the learned Single Judge in Suit No. 1510A of 1986, dated 02.12.1994 and while disposing FAO (OS) No.118 of 1995, has directed the appellantcorporation to pay to the respondentcompany a sum of Rs.95,394.10/ along with interest at the rate of 9 per annum on the said amount from the date of the award i.e. 07.05.1986 till the date of payment.	Issue
The awards dated 15.05.1986 and 07.05.1986 passed by the learned Arbitrator are modified to the above extent and accordingly, are made rule of court by the Division Bench.	Issue
The brief facts of the case are The appellant, National Thermal Power Corporation Limited (for short NTPC?)	None
is a Government Company registered under the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956.	None
It is engaged in construction project for generation, operation, transmission and maintenance of super thermal power projects in India.	Facts
Some time in the year 1978, the NTPC had invited tenders for the work of construction of bridges and flyovers for merrygoround (M.G.M.) railway system and sidings for the Singrauli Super Thermal Power Project.	Facts
The said construction work was to be carried out both in the Mirzapur District of Uttar Pradesh (approximately 80 of the total construction work) and the Sidhi District of Madhya Pradesh (approximately 20 of the total construction work in areas adjoining the construction sites in Uttar Pradesh).	Facts
The respondentBhasin Construction Private Ltd. (for brevity, the Construction Company) had participated in the said tender process.	None
In the bid offered by the Construction Company, it had quoted the fair wages payable to the skilled, unskilled or semiskilled labourers on the date of the settlement of the contract at Rs.2.70/. The then existing rates of minimum wages?	Facts
payable to the labourers as per the governing laws in the States of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh were Rs.6/ and Rs.2/ respectively.	None
Since the bid amount quoted by the Construction Company was the lowest among all the tenders received by the NTPC, the bid so offered by the Construction Company was accepted by the NTPC.	None
Accordingly, the NTPC had issued a Letter of Intent dated 13.10.1978 to the Construction Company awarding the work of aforesaid construction.	None
The Construction Company had accepted the said Letter of Intent issued by the NTPC, by their letter dated 18.11.1978.	None
After a series of communications, the parties had entered into an agreement dated 20.02.1979.	None
The tender documents comprising of Special Conditions of the Contract and General Conditions of the Contract were annexed to the said agreement.	None
In toto, the construction contract was valued at Rs.1,17,61,372/.	None
During the subsistence of the contract between the parties, the rate of minimum wages in respect of employment of unskilled workers for construction and maintenance was revised and had escalated to Rs.4/ per day by the Government of State of Madhya Pradesh vide the Notification No.342I4936XVI, dated 27.06.1979.	Facts
Since the lis pertains to minimum wages?	Facts
payable to labourers in the State of Madhya Pradesh	Facts
only, we would not saddle the judgment by noticing the colateral changes effected in the State of Uttar Pradesh.	Facts
Consequently, the Construction Company, vide its letter No.BCC/710/1093, dated 07.03.1981, made a claim of Rs.5,67,766.84/ towards labour escalation for the work done in Sidhi District, Madhya Pradesh, for the period from 01.02.1979 to 01.12.1980 and Rs.36,83,475.72/ for the work done in the State of Uttar Pradesh on the basis of the increase in the rate of minimum wages payable to the labourers.	Facts
In the said escalation bill, the Construction Company had claimed escalation at the rate of Rs.3.00/ with effect from 01.02.1979 and Rs.4.00/ with effect from 01.04.1979.	Facts
After considering the escalation bill so submitted, the NTPC had paid a total sum of Rs.4,72,372.74/ to the Construction Company for the work carried out in State of Madhya Pradesh, vide cheques dated 15.07.1981, 31.07.1981, 28.06.1982 and 22.07.1982, but denied their claim in respect of State of Uttar Pradesh.	Facts
Thereafter, a series of communications ensued between the parties however, their respective claims could not be settled.	Facts
Later NTPC, having noticed that the Construction Company had wrongly claimed a sum of Rs.4,72,372.74/, requested the Construction Company to refund the aforesaid sum, by their letter dated 07.10.1983.	Facts
Since the parties had disputed the claim, in terms of Clause 57 of the agreement, they had referred the dispute for arbitration before the Sole Arbitrator.	None
The parties had raised two separate claims for adjudication and decision before the Sole Arbitrator.	Facts
The Construction Company had claimed a sum of Rs.37,78,869.82/ Rs.36,83,475.72/ (for Uttar Pradesh) Rs.5,67,766.84/ (for of Madhya Pradesh) Rs.4,72,372.74/	None
(amount of labour escalation already paid) as balance due from NTPC alongwith interest towards the increased wages paid by them to the labourers, whereas the NTPC had denied the said claim of the Construction Company and further claimed a refund of Rs.4,72,372.74/ with interest at the rate of 18 p.a.	Facts
from the date of payment till the date of refund of the amount.	Facts
While deciding the claim made by the Construction Company, the learned Arbitrator had raised ten issues for his consideration and decision.	Facts
The issues so framed were ?(1) What were the minimum wages for unskilled labour in Madhya Pradesh during the relevant period?	None
(2) What were the minimum wages for unskilled labour in Uttar Pradesh during the relevant period?	None
(3) What were the fair wages for unskilled workers at the time of the contract at the places where works were to be executed?	None
(4) What has been the effect of the increase in minimum wages on fair wages?	None
(5) Is the contract indivisible as claimed as regards the payment of wages to unskilled workers for the works executed at the place (s) in M.P. and at different places of U.P. and if so, to what result?	None
(6) Is the work site No.10 located in M.P. or both in M.P. and U.P.?	None
(7) Is the claimant entitled to recover escalation in wages for the whole of the No.10 and if so, to what extent?	None
(8) What amount was actually spent by the claimant Co. on the payment of wages to unskilled labour on account of escalation in minimum wages?	None
(9) Is the Claimant Company entitled is more payment, even if they did not pay more wages to unskilled workers on account of such escalation in wages?	None
(10) Is the Claimant Company entitled to recover any interest in this regard and, if so, to what amount?	None
(11) Relief.?	None
Since the question before us is limited to liability for payment of money for escalation in rates of minimum wages in Madhya Pradesh, we would not notice the discussion and decision made by the learned Arbitrator in respect of work carried out in Uttar Pradesh.	Facts
The learned arbitrator has considered issue Nos. 1, 3, 5 and 9 collectively and recorded his findings that minimum wages (fair wages) for labour in Sidhi District, Madhya Pradesh was Rs.2.00/ upto 26.06.1979 and pursuant to the notification was raised to Rs.4.00/ and further that the contract is not divisible and thereby wages payable in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh could not be calculated in isolation with each other.	Facts
He has relied upon Clauses 7.1(a) and 7.3 of the Special Conditions of the Contract and Clause 53A(b) of the General Conditions of the Contract and has concluded that the claim for reimbursement on account of increase in fair wages?	Facts
payable by the Construction Company would be admissible under the contract only, when there has been escalation in minimum wages?	Facts
on account of the notification issued by the appropriate State Government under the payment of Minimum Wages Act, however, such reimbursement would be subject to whether or not the Construction Company has paid such increased fair wages?	Facts
on account of the said escalation.	Facts
In so far as issue No.8, the learned Arbitrator has concluded that for the works carried out at the sites sides located in Sidhi District, Madhya Pradesh the Construction Company had to pay and has paid increased wages to unskilled labourers from Rs.2.00/ to Rs.4.00/ per day with effect from 27.6.1979.	Facts
While considering issue No.6 and 7, the Sole Arbitrator has agreed with the claim made by the Construction Company in respect of construction work of Bridge No. 10 situated at the border of the two States that the minimum wages payable for all labourers would be the same irrespective of whether the work is carried out by them in the Madhya Pradesh or Uttar Pradesh and consequently, directed the NTPC to make the payment of the amounts for escalation in minimum wages in Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
In conclusion the learned Arbitrator has thought it fit to direct the NTPC to pay a sum of Rs.5,10,850/ to the Construction Company.	Facts
On the claim made by the NTPC, the learned Arbitrator in his award dated 15.05.1986 has concluded that the NTPC is required to reimburse the Construction Company in accordance with the agreement between them for payment of escalated minimum wages?	Facts
from Rs.2.00/ to Rs.4.00/ and rejected the claim of the NTPC for refund of the monies already paid to the Construction Company.	None
Outcome of the proceedings of the learned Arbitrator resulted in filing of two suits before the High Court of Delhi by the parties.	Facts
While the learned Arbitrator had filed the Award, dated 07.05.1986, and proceedings before the High Court as required under Section 14(2) of the Arbitration Act, 1940, the NTPC has questioned the Award dated 7.5.1986 by filing its objection under Section 30 and 33 of the Act in Suit No.1496A of 1986.	Facts
The other connected suit (Suit No.1510A of 1986) arises out of the Award dated 15.05.1986, wherein the claim made by NTPC for refund of the monies paid to Construction Company was rejected by the learned Arbitrator.	Facts
The learned Single Judge of the High Court in the judgment and order dated 02.12.1994 in Suit No.1496A of 1986, has observed that the escalation claim of the Construction Company in respect of the work carried out in the State of Madhya Pradesh could only be a sum of Rs.5,67,766.84/ and keeping in view the escalation costs already paid by the NTPC, the Construction Company would be entitled for payment of Rs.95,394.10/ only.	Facts
The learned Single Judge has also come to the conclusion that the learned Arbitrator had erroneously awarded a sum of Rs.5,10,850/ which is beyond the claim made by the Construction Company and, accordingly, has set aside the Award, dated 07.05.1986.	Facts
By a separate order, dated 02.12.1994 in Suit No.1510A of 1986, has delved into the question of ?basic wage?	Facts
considered under Clause 7.1(a) so as to carry out the escalation calculations and concluded that the learned Arbitrator has erroneously considered the escalation from Rs.2.00/ instead of Rs.2.70/, which infact was admittedly paid by the Construction Company as fair wages to the labourers in Sidhi District, Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
Keeping the aforesaid fair wages paid by the Construction Company as basic wages, the learned Single Judge has calculated the difference payable at the rate of Rs.1.03/, considering escalated amount of Rs.2.97/ after 10 absorption as per Clause 53A(b) of the General Conditions of Contract.	Facts
Consequently, the learned Single Judge has modified the Award dated 15.05.1986 and observed that the Construction Company has paid a sum of Rs.2,09.376.74/ in excess of the amounts due under the contract and accordingly directed it to refund the said amount to NTPC with interest at the rate of 12 per annum thereon from the date of payment till realization.	Facts
Being aggrieved by the aforesaid order passed by the learned Single Judge, the Construction Company had filed two appeals, one against the orders passed in Suit No.1510A of 1986 and the other against the order passed in Suit No.1496A of 1986.	Facts
The appeals are numbered as FAO (OS) No.116 of 1985 and FAO (OS) No.118 of 1995.	Facts
However, the NTPC being satisfied with the aforesaid judgment and orders passed by the learned Single Judge had not carried the matter in further appeal before the Division Bench.	Facts
The Division Bench, by the impugned judgment and order dated 04.12.2008, has allowed the FAO (OS) No.116 of 1985 and made the Award dated 15.05.1986 rule of Court.	Facts
However, the Division Bench, in FAO (OS) No.118 of 1995, has modified the impugned judgment and order of the learned Single Judge and directed the NTPC to make payment of Rs.95,394.10/ to the Construction Company for the increase in minimum wages from Rs.2.00/ to Rs.4.00/.	Facts
It is the correctness or otherwise of the said order which is the subject matter of these appeals by special leave.	Facts
We have heard learned counsel for the parties and carefully perused the documents on record.	None
In our view, to appreciate the contentions canvassed by the learned counsel for the parties, the Clauses 7.1(a) and 7.3 of the Special Conditions and Clauses 16.2 and 53A (b) of the General Conditions of the Contract between the parties are required to be noticed ?	None
Special Conditions of Contract (SCC)	None
Clause 7.1 For the purpose of calculation of reimbursement refund on variation in prices, if there be any (plus or minus), the basis of calculation shall be as under Clause 7.3	None
The price variation of different components under 7.1.	None
a, b c above shall be subjected to the ceilings as stipulated under clause 53A ?	None
General Conditions of Contract?	None
for admissibility of reimbursement refund on variation in prices.?	None
General Conditions of Contract Clause 16.2 ?	None
The contractor shall pay to the labourers employed by him either directly or through subcontractor wages not less than fair wages as defined in the contractors labour regulations?.	None
Clause 53 A (b) ?	None
Reimbursement Refund on variation of price (a) (b)	None
Labour For the purpose of this contract the minimum wages of unskilled labour and the skilled labour and of semiskilled labour on the date of submission of the tender shall be taken as shown in ScheduleD on account of any legislation, notification, labour award, the minimum wages of unskilled labour, of skilled labour and of semiskilled labour are increased at any time or times after the submission of the tender and the contractor has to pay any increased wages then the corporation shall reimburse to the contractor the increase in the cost of labour not exceeding the increase permitted under the legislation, notification, labour award or duly approved binding agreement as aforesaid, subject to hereinafter provided?	None
(b)(i) (b)(ii) ?	None
Provided however no increase shall be payable if the increase is not more than 10 of the said wages and, if so, the increase shall be payable only on the excess over 10 and provided further that any such increase shall not be payable if such increase has become operative after the contract or extended date of completion of the works or items of work in question?	None
Clause 7.1(a) of the Special Conditions of Contract relates to refund on variation in prices of various components of works contract one such component being Labour?.	None
It explains that basic index for calculation there would be the minimum wages payable to the unskilled labour as per applicable rates in Sidhi District, Madhya Pradesh under the Minimum Wages Act.	None
Clause 7.3 speaks of price variation of different components prescribed under 7.1 a, b and c and that would be subjected to the ceilings as stipulated under Clause 53A of General Conditions of the Contract for the purpose of admissibility of reimbursement refund on variation in prices.	None
Clause 16 of the General Conditions of the Contract defines the meaning of the expression fair wages?.	None
It adopts the meaning as defined in Regulation 16 of the Contractors Labour Regulations.	None
It means ?fair wages?	None
to include wages for weekly day of rest and other allowances, whether for time or piece work, after taking into consideration, the prevalent market rates for similar employment in the neighborhood, but shall not be less than the market rates of the wages fixed under the Payment of Minimum Wages Act, 1948.	None
Schedule D?	None
to these General Conditions of the Contract pertains to the minimum wages which are contemplated as per Payment of Minimum Wages Act?	None
as notified by the appropriate State Government applicable to the concerned project site.	None
Clause 53A(b) of the General Conditions of the Contract is in two parts.	None
The first part speaks of payment of the minimum wages to unskilled labour and the skilled labour and semiskilled labourers on the date of submission of the tenders and the same shall be taken as shown in Schedule D of the contract, i.e., under the Payment of the Minimum Wages Act.	None
The second part of the Clause speaks of the increase of wages on account of a legislation, by issuance of a notification or by passing the labour award in respect of the minimum wages of unskilled labour and of skilled labour and of the semiskilled labour at any time after the submission of the tender.	None
The Construction Company, after such increase, is required to pay the increased wages and on proof of such payment of the said increased wages having been made, the NTPC is required to reimburse the increased wages paid to its workers to the contractor.	None
The proviso appended to Clause 53A(b) provides that the increased wages need not be paid by the NTPC, if the increase in wages is not more than 10 of the said wages.	None
The other part of the proviso speaks of the payment of increased wages to the contractor, if the increase is in excess of 10 and again such a payment need not be made by the Corporation, if such increase has become operative after the completion of the contract or extended date of completion of the works or items of work in question.	None
Having noticed the relevant clauses in the contract between the parties, we advert to the reasoning and conclusions drawn in the two Awards passed by the learned Arbitrator, dated 07.05.1986 and 15.05.1986 and the judgment and order passed by the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court of Delhi.	None
It is neither in dispute nor could be disputed by the parties that the Construction Company at the relevant point of time of execution of 20 of the construction work in Sidhi District, Madhya Pradesh was paying Rs.2.70/ as the fair wages?	None
to the unskilled semiskilled labourers on the date of submission of their tender, since the Construction Company had specifically stated in the escalation bill submitted to the NTPC that the amount paid as fair wages?	None
to labourers at Sidhi District, Madhya Pradesh was Rs.2.70/.	None
The learned Arbitrator, keeping in view the possible construction that could be placed on Clauses 7, 16 and 53A(b) of the General Conditions of the Contract, has thought it fit to allow only the increased wages paid by the respondentCompany from Rs.2.70/ to Rs.4.00/, i.e., from the fair wages?	None
as quoted in the escalation bill to the increased minimum wages?.	None
The learned Single Judge has more or less accepted this view of the learned Arbitrator and on the basis of the said rates has rightly concluded that the amount that requires to be paid by NTPC is only a sum of Rs.95,394.10/ .	None
He has arrived at this figure keeping in view Rs.1.03/ as the difference of amount payable as per the contract.	None
However, the Division Bench of the High Court, while modifying the conclusions reached by the learned Single Judge has thought it fit to direct the NTPC to pay the escalated wages by taking into account the difference of the minimum wages as payable on the date of submitting the tender and the increased minimum wages, i.e., Rs.2.00/ to Rs.4.00/.	None
The learned counsel for the appellant, Mrs.Rachana Joshi Issar has taken trouble to convince us, that, what would be payable by the NTPC to the Construction Company is only the difference between the fair wages?	Arguments of Petitioner
paid by the contractor and the minimum wages?	Arguments of Petitioner
fixed by way of legislation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, she would submit that what is payable to the Construction Company by the NTPC is only a sum of Rs.1.03/ after making the calculations as provided under proviso to Clause 53A(b) of the General Conditions of the Contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per Contra, Ms. Binu Tamta, learned counsel for the Construction Company would submit that the Division Bench of the High Court is justified in directing the NTPC to pay the difference of the minimum wages that was fixed by the State of Madhya Pradesh at the time of offering the tender and the increase of the minimum wages by way of notification during the subsistence of the contract.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions canvassed by the learned counsel for the parties.	Facts
We are of the view that what is brought forth for our consideration and decision is, whether the NTPC is required to make payment of escalated labour charges to the Construction Company from the amount of the statutory minimum wages?	Facts
as on the date of submission of tender forms or fair wages?	Reasoning
as quoted in the tender form submitted by the Construction Company.	Reasoning
Therefore, the entire case of the parties would revolve only on the mathematical calculation that requires to be done.	Reasoning
Admittedly, the Construction Company while offering its tender forms to NTPC had specifically stated that the fair wages?	Facts
payable to their labourers for the construction work at Sidhi District in the State of Madhya Pradesh is Rs.2.70/ though, at the relevant point of time the minimum wages prescribed for the said work was only Rs.2.00/. Subsequently, the minimum wages payable in the State of Madhya Pradesh was revised by the State Government by issuing Notification dated 27.06.1979 to Rs.4.00/.	Reasoning
If that is so, in the light of Clause 7 of Special Conditions of Contract and Clauses 16 and 53A(b) of the General Conditions of Contract read with the tender documents and escalation bill submitted by the Construction Company, it is abundantly clear that what is required to be paid to the Construction Company by the NTPC is only the difference between Rs.4.00/ and Rs.2.70/, subject to other calculations as provided in the proviso to Clause 53A of the General Conditions of Contract.	None
In our considered opinion, the learned Single Judge had rightly concluded that the difference shall be calculated between the fair wages?	Reasoning
paid by the Construction Company before issuance of the notification and the increased minimum wages after issuance of the notification and if it is calculated in that manner, what requires to be paid is Rs.1.03/ after making necessary adjustments as provided under second proviso to Clause 53A(b).	Facts
However, the learned Division Bench had erroneously calculated the amounts payable based on the difference of minimum wages at the time of submission of tender forms and as increased by the Notification.	None
The aforesaid amount shall carry interest at the rate of 9 per annum from the passing of the Award, dated 07.05.1986, till the date of actual payment.	Facts
With these observations and directions, we set aside the judgment and order passed by the Division Bench of the High Court in part.	Decision
To the extent indicated in the order, the appeals are partly allowed.	Decision
Parties to bear their own costs.	None
Ordered accordingly.	None
