 Ramaswamy, J. Leave granted in all the special leave partitions.	None
This batch of appeals by special leave arises from common judgment dated November 22,1994 of the Kerala High Court made in O. P. No. 5957 of 1987 and batch.	None
By Section 36 of Finance Act 1978, the Central Excises and Salt Act 1944 (for short, the Excise act, was amended to impose central excise duty on electricity under Item 11E in the Ist Schedule to the Excise Act and fixed 2 paise per kilo watt of electricity unit.	Facts
Consequently , the Kerala State electricity Board (KSEB) was liable to pay excise duty on electricity generated and produced by it.	Facts
To recoup that loss, the Government of Kerala, exercising its power under Section 3 of the Kerala Essential Articles Control (Temporary Powers) Act, 1961, issued an order.	Facts
By clause (4) of the said order, surcharge at the rate of 2.5 paise per unit of electrical energy was levied on all supplies of electrical energy made by the KSEB either directly or through licensees of Extra High Tension (EHT) and High Tension (HT) consumers.	Facts
Thereunder, the licensees were allowed to retain 1 of the amount collected as collection charges.	Facts
On October 1,1984 the Government of India had withdrawn the levy of excise duty on electricity.	Facts
The Government of Kerala in supersession of its Order dated April 6,1979 had notified the State Electricity Supply ( Kerala State Electricity Board and Licensees Area)	Facts
Surcharge Order, 1984 effective from October 1,1984.	Facts
Under clause (4) of the said Order all supplies of electrical energy made by KSEB either directly or through licensees, were liable to surcharge at the rate fixed at 2.5 paise per unit.	Facts
In the explanatory note it was stated that though excise duty was discontinued, the State Government desired to continue the levy of surcharge.	Facts
The EHT and HT consumers had filed writ petitions challenging the validity of the 1984 Order.	Facts
pending writ petitions, on August 1, 1988, the State Government discontinued the levy of surcharge with effect from that date by issuing an Ordinance called the Kerala Electricity Duty (Amendment) Ordinance, 1988 which later on became an enactment.	Facts
The rate of electricity duty was 30 of the price of energy.	Facts
Later, it was revised to 10 paise per unit for HT consumers and 6.5 paise per unit for EHT consumers.	Facts
After a representation was made through the Association of the HT and EHT consumers, the Government of Kerala decided to discontinue the surcharge on the electricity duty of 10 paise per unit On September 27, 1988, a Division Bench of the High Court in Chakolas Spinning and Weaving Mills Ltd. v. K. S. E. Board, 1988(2)	Facts
Ker L. T 680 held that the levy of surcharge is in substance a compulsory exaction intended to enrich the confers of the State and in effect partakes the character of tax on electricity.	Facts
The Government, acting as a delegate under the Kerala Essential Articles Control Act, 1986 (Act 16 of 1986), is not competent to impose any tax.	Facts
A writ of mandamus was issued directing refund of excise duty collected from those writ petitioners before the High Court.	Facts
The Kerala State Electricity Supply (Kerala State Electricity Board and Licensees Area)	Facts
Surcharge Order, 1984 was declared ultra vires the power of the State Government.	Facts
The said judgment was confirmed by this Court dismissing the Special Leave Petitions in limine.4.	Facts
At this stage, it may be necessary to mention that the Essential Articles (Control) Act. 1963 was amended and Act 13 of 1988 was enacted.	Facts
It is also relevant to note that exercising the power under Entry 53 of List II of the seventh Schedule, the Kerala State legislature had enacted Kerala Electricity Duty Act.	Facts
1963 and Rules were made to levy electricity duty at varying rates.	Facts
Orders were passed by this Court on April 13, 1989 dismissing the SLP (c) Nos. 425666 of 1989.	Facts
The Governor of Kerala, exercising power under Article 213 of the Constitution issued Ordinance called the Kerala Electricity Surcharge (Levy and Collection) Ordinance, 1989 which later on became enactment.	Facts
viz.	Facts
Act 22 of 1989 (for short, the Act).	Facts
Under the Act, the appellants are liable to pay 2.5 paise per unit of electrical energy supplied.	Facts
The appellants challenged the same by filing the writ petitions.	Facts
The High Court upheld the validity of the Act and the Order.	Facts
Thus these appeals by special leave.	Facts
Shri K.K. Venugopal, learned senior counsel for the first appellant contended that the Act levies tax on supply of electrical energy.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not a tax either on sale or consumption of electrical energy.	Arguments of Petitioner
Entries 26 and 27 of List II (State List) of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution empower the State legislature, subject to Entry 33 of List III (Concurrent List) to enact law empowering levy of surcharge on supply and distribution of goods and trade and commerce therein.	Arguments of Petitioner
Entry 53 of the State List empowers the State legislature to enact the law on sale or consumption of electricity.	Arguments of Petitioner
Having made the law under Entry 26 or 27, using the appropriate language for levy and collection of excise duty on supply of electricity, the Act cannot be construed to be one made under Entry 53 of the State List.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further contended that the word supply has its own connotation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Equally, sale and consumption of electricity bear different connotations.	Arguments of Petitioner
The State legislature having enacted the Electricity Duty Act, 1963, imposes duty on electricity 30 and reduced it to 10 by later amendment and discontinued the levy of excise duty from August 1, 1988, and the socalled duty not having been passed on to the public exchequer, the Act was made only as a colourable device to avoid refund of excise duty to the tune of Rs. 15 crores wrongly collected from the consumers.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Act admittedly is not an amendment to the Excise Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The excise duty is levied on supply of electricity.	Arguments of Petitioner
If excise duty is construed to be a tax under Entry 53, the Electricity Duty Act, 1963 being earlier to the Act and both occupying the same filed, as a special component of the tax on electricity, the later Act prevail over the earlier.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the State legislature did not intend to have the earlier enactment, viz., Electricity Duty Act, superseded by the Act which imposes levy of only 2.5 paise per unit of electrical energy.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the imposition is not a tax but a duty on supply of electricity.	Arguments of Petitioner
This deduction could be drawn from the language employed in the Act itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
Otherwise, nothing prevented the legislature to use such a language as impost on sale and consumption of electricity.	Arguments of Petitioner
The express language employed shows that they intended to levy duty on supply of electricity.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Act was not intended to be one made under Entry 53 but one under Entry 27.	Arguments of Petitioner
He sought support from previous judgments of this Court upholding the power of the legislature under Entries 21 and 26 imposing duty on supply of electric energy in 1968 Order from the State of Kerala and under similar provisions in other States.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri R.F. Nariman, learned counsel for some other appellants contended that the legislature is devoid of power to enact Section 11 of the Act validating the levy with retrospective effect which is blatant encroachment upon judicial power of the Courts.	Arguments of Petitioner
Judicial review being basic structure of the Constitution, Section 11 is ultra vires the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even assuming that it could enact a law after Chakolas case (1988 (2) Ker LT 680) (supra), it could do so only prospectively but it could not nullify the writ of mandamus issued by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The law is antijudgment validation directly overruling the judgment which was upheld by this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, Section 11 is unconstitutional.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contended that after M. M. Pathaks case (AIR 1978 SC 803 ) (infra), the legislature has no power to amend the law.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri K.V. Vishwanathan, learned counsel for some other appellants contended that the effect of Section 11 would be that any judgment to be rendered by the Court in future would be nullified and in effect would tantamount to legislative declaration prohibiting judicial review, a basic feature of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, the legislature adjudicates upon the disputes and gives a legislative declaration of the law which is impermissible under the scheme of the distribution of the sovereign powers between the legislature, the executive and the judiciary.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri T.L. Vishwanatha Iyer, learned senior counsel for the State contended that the language employed and the title of the Act are not conclusive.	Arguments of Respondent
Legislature derives power from Entry 53 to make the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It is law on sale of consumption of electricity.	Arguments of Respondent
In Chakolas case (1988 (2) Ker LT 680) (supra) the Division Bench of the High Court declared that impost is compulsory exaction for the benefits to the State and had declared that the executive was not competent to issue the predecessor Order under the Essential Articles (Control) Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 3 thereof had not given express power to the Government to levy and collect excise duty.	Arguments of Respondent
Consequently, the levy was declared ultravires.	Arguments of Respondent
The legislature acted thereon and enacted the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Though the words sale or consumption of electricity have not expressly been used in the Act and repeated as excise duty on supply of electricity duty, being in the nature of a tax impost and being a compulsory exaction for benefits to the State, it is a tax, The legislature, therefore, enacted law under Entry 53 of List II of the 7th Schedule.9.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no hiatus between supply and consumption of electricity.	Arguments of Respondent
As soon as the electrical energy passes off from the meter of the consumer, electricity is consumed.	Arguments of Respondent
From the moment of consumption it becomes sale.	Arguments of Respondent
It is, therefore, in substance a tax on consumption and sale of electricity.	Arguments of Respondent
He further contended that the legislature having competence to enact the law, equally has power to enact prospectively and retrospectively.	Arguments of Respondent
The foundation that it is duty levied under the Order, as held in Chakolas case (1988 (2) Ker LT 680), had been removed making it a tax, the base of invalidity pointed out by the Court had been removed by enacting the Act and having removed the vice the Act has given retrospective effect to it.	Arguments of Respondent
It is not a direct encroachment on the power of judicial review but is one of legislative arrangement exercising its sovereign power to amend the law and validate all past transactions.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, Section 11 is not ultra vires the Constitution.10.	Arguments of Respondent
The legislature did not put any express embargo on the power of judicial review not a declaration to that effect finds place in any of the provisions of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Though it is open to the judiciary to declare the law, the effect thereof could suitably be removed.	Arguments of Respondent
Resultantly, there is no invalidity in the impost as electricity duty.	Arguments of Respondent
The Electricity Duty Act and the Act operate in the same field.	Arguments of Respondent
The former as principal Act the Act is in the nature of an enactment imposing tax on duty.	Arguments of Respondent
Both operate harmoniously in the respective fields without colliding in their operation.11.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri G. Vishwanatha Iyer for the Board contended that the KSEB had been receiving substantial financial assistance from the Government and the impost and the collection of the tax went to the credit of the public exchequer except 1 in the form of collection charges which goes to the account of KSEB.	Arguments of Respondent
Instead of granting refund to the appellants the State retrospectively enacted the law.	Arguments of Respondent
The validation Act merely intended to retain the collection already made not only from the appellants but also from every other consumer.	Arguments of Respondent
Retrospective validation was made to avoid cumbersome process of refund and recollection.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no embargo on the exercise of the power of judicial review either by this Court or the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The primary question, therefore, is whether the impugned Act enacted by the State legislature is one under Entry 53 of the State List, viz., Taxes on the consumption or sale of electricity.	None
Indisputably, the title of the Act as well as the charging Section 3 employ the words duty on supply of electricity.	Reasoning
Under Article 246 (3) of the Constitution, every State legislature has explicit power to make law for that State with respect to the matters enumerated in List II (State List) of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	Reasoning
The States power to impose tax is derived from the Constitution.	Reasoning
The Entries in the three Lists of the Seventh Schedule are not power of legislation but merely fields of legislation.	Reasoning
The power is derived under Article 246 and other related Articles of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The legislative fields are of enabling character designed to define and delimit the respective areas of legislative competence of the respective legislatures.	Reasoning
There is neither implied restriction imposed on the legislature nor is any duty prescribed to exercise that legislative power in a particular manner.	Reasoning
But the legislation must be subject to the limitations prescribed under the Constitution.	Reasoning
In Navinchandra Mafatlal v. The Commr. of Incometax, Bombay, 1955(1) SCR 829, the controversy was whether the expression capital gain used in the Incometax Act, inserted by Section 128 of Incometax Act, 1922 and Government of India Act, 1935, includes income under Entry 54 of List I (Union List).	None
A Constitution Bench of this Court had held that the cardinal rule of interpretation is that the words should be read in their ordinary, natural and grammatical meaning subject to this rider that in construing the words in a constitutional enactment conferring legislative power, the most liberal construction should be put upon the words so that the same may have effect in their widest amplitude.	None
It was accordingly held that the capital gain is an income under that Act.	None
In Banarasi Das v. Wealth Tax Officer, Spl.	None
Circle, Meerut, AIR 1965 SC 1387 , another Constitution Bench, interpreting the word individuals as used in Entry 86 of List I and the Wealth Tax Act, while dealing with the question whether Hindu family would include an individual, this Court reiterated that the words used in the Entries of the Seventh Schedule must receive their widest interpretation.	None
It was further held that it would be unreasonable to approach the task of interpretation in a narrow or restrictive manner.	None
In Baldeo Singh v. Commr. of Incometax Delhi and Ajmer, AIR 1961 SC 735, interpreting the provisions of Incometax Act, 1922 this Court had held that payment of dividend is a form of income.	None
The Act was made to prevent avoidance of supertax.	None
Therefore, the entries in that Act and the words used thereunder must be construed liberally to prevent avoidance of the tax.	None
In M s. Burmah Construction Co. v. State of Orissa, AIR 1962 SC 1320 , after this Court had decided in State of Orissa v. Oriental Paper Mills Ltd., AIR 1961 SC 1438 , the Orissa Sales Tax Act, 1947 was amended and Section 14 restricting grant of refund of tax inappropriately and illegally collected, was challenged.	None
This Court had held that if the power to legislate in respect of tax comprehends the power to legislate in respect of refund of tax improperly or illegally collected.	None
imposition of restrictions on the exercise of the right to claim refund will not be beyond the competence of the Legislature.	None
Granting refund of tax improperly or illegally collected and the restriction on the exercise of that right are both ancillary or subsidiary matters relating to the primary head of tax on sale of goods.	None
The provisions of Section 14 of the Act were, therefore not held ultra vires the State Legislature.	None
In The Madurai District Central Cooperative Bank Ltd. v. Third Income Tax Officer, Madurai, AIR 1975 SC 2016 , when the annuity scheme was enacted in the Finance Act, competence of the Parliament in that regard was questioned.	None
This Court had held that Incometax Act is a permanent statute.	None
Finance Act passed every year prescribes the rates at which the tax is to be charged under the Incometax Act.	None
The annuity is only one of the benefits for deduction of the Incometax in calculation of the income chargeable to tax.	None
While so interpreting, this Court had given wide interpretation and upheld the power of the Parliament under Article 246 (1) read with Entry 82 of List I.	None
In Hoechst Pharmaceuticals Ltd. v. State of Bihar, 1983(3) SCR 130, relied on by Shri Venugopal, the question arose whether levy of surcharge on salestax and prohibition from passing on the liability thereof to purchasers was void in terms of the opening words of Article 246 (3) of the Constitution for being in conflict with the Drugs (Price Control) Order made under Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act.	None
In interpreting the respective legislative fields of the Parliament and the State legislature (Concurrent List), with a view to subserve the power of the respective legislatures to enact law, restrictive interpretation was adopted by a threejudge Bench of this Court.	None
It, therefore, cannot be understood that in respect of taxing statute, restrictive interpretation would be put up.	None
In view of the legal position referred to hereinbefore, it must be held that the words sale or consumption used in Entry 53 of State List and the Act made in exercise of the power under Article 246 (3) of the Constitution, would receive wide interpretation so as to sustain the constitutionality of the Act unless it is affirmatively established that the Act is unconstitutional.20.	Reasoning
When the vires of an enactment is challenged, it is very difficult to ascertain the limits of the legislative power.	Reasoning
Therefore, the controversy must be resolved as far as possible, in favour of the legislative body putting the most liberal construction upon the relevant legislative entry so that it may have the widest amplitude.	Reasoning
The Court is required to look at the substance of the legislation.	Reasoning
It is equally settled law that in order to determine whether a tax statue is within the competence of the legislature, it is necessary to determine the nature of the tax and whether the legislature had power to enact such a law.	Reasoning
The primary guidance for this purpose is to be gathered from the charging section.	Reasoning
It is the substance of the impost and not the form that determines the nature of the tax.	Reasoning
In District Board Dehra Dun v. Damodar Dutt, ILR 1944 All 611, the Allahabad High Court, while considering the constitutionality of Professions Tax Limitation Act, 1941 and Section 2 thereof, had held that the name given to a tax did not matter.	None
What had to be considered was the pith and substance of it.	None
The High Court had held that in pith and substance the impugned tax was one which attracted the provisions of Section 2 of that Act.	None
That ratio was upheld by this Court in Pandit Ram Narain v. State of U.P., 1956 SCR 664 , and it was held that the title of the Act and the words used therein were not conclusive but the pith and substance of the statue needed to be looked into.	None
The doctrine of pith and substance, though applied in determining the true character of the statutes under List III (Concurrent List) of the respective legislative topics of the State legislature and the Parliament.	Reasoning
It was extended for consideration of the true character of the legislation even under the same legislative list.	Reasoning
In all cases, therefore, the name given by the legislature in the impugned enactment is not conclusive on the question of its competence to make it.	Reasoning
It is the pith and substance of the legislation which decides the matter which needs to be decided with reference to the provisions of the statute itself.	Reasoning
In Chaturbhai M. Patel v. Union of India, AIR 1960 SC 624, another Constitution Bench had held that in every case where the legislative competence of the legislature in regard to a particular enactment was challenged with reference to the entries in the various lists, it was necessary to examine the pith and substance of the Act and if the matter came substantially within in item in the Central List, it could not be deemed to come within an entry in the Provincial list.	None
The question, therefore, is whether in pith and substance the Act is one imposing tax on the sale or consumption of electrical energy supplied to the consumer ?	None
It is true that in Northern India Caterers (India) Ltd. v. Lt. Governor of Delhi, 1979(1)	None
SCR 557 and M s. Gannon Dunkerley Co. v. State of Rajasthan, 1993(1) SCC 364	None
this Court had held that the expression tax on the sale or purchase of goods in Entry 54 of the State List included a tax on the transfer of property in goods, whether as goods or in some other form involved in supplying food in a restaurant or in the execution of a works contract and power to impose tax leviable thereon would be under Entry 54 of the State List.	None
It was held that it was not liable to tax since there was no transfer of property in goods.	None
The Parliament amended the Constitution and enacted clause (29A) of Article 366 so as to bring it in conformity with Entry 33 of List III of the Seventh Schedule, introducing a legal fiction of tax on sale or purchase of goods including the transfer of property in goods, whether as goods or in some other form, involved in execution of the works contractor or otherwise than in pursuance of the contract of property in goods for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration.	None
It is common knowledge that for HT and EHT industries a substation at the place of manufacture or establishment or at its convenient place is set up and electricity is supplied to the substation and a minimum guarantee of payment is ensured therefore under the contract.	None
But the question is whether the word supply used in Section 3 of the Act would be construed to mean consumption or sale of electricity.	None
From the substation, electricity is connected to the industrial units through the meter put up in the factory.	None
Continuity of supply and consumption starts from the moment the electrical energy passes through the meters and sale simultaneously takes place as soon as meter reading is recorded.	None
All the three steps or phases take place without any hiatus.	None
It is true that from the place of generating electricity, the electricity is supplied to the substation installed at the units of the consumers through electrical highertension transformers and from there electricity is supplied to the meter.	None
But the moment electricity is supplied through the meter, consumption and sale simultaneously take place.	None
It is true that in the definitions give in the New Encyclopedia Britannica, Vol. 4. 842 cited before us, distinction between supply and consumption is stated but adopting a pragmatic and realistic approach, we are of the considered view that as soon as the electrical energy is supplied to the consumers and is transmitted through the meter, consumption takes place simultaneously with the supply.	None
There is no hiatus in its operation.	None
Simultaneously sale also takes place.	None
Charge will be quantified at a later date as per the recorded meter reading or escaped metering, as the case may be.	None
The word supply used in the charging Section 3 should, therefore, receive liberal interpretation to include sale or consumption of electricity as envisaged in Entry 53 of the State List.	None
It is true that when water supplied by the municipality to the consumers through their water mains, flows from the mains through the water meter and into the pipes fitted into the house and from there water is supplied from tap fitted to the pipes.	Reasoning
Thus there is hiatus between supply and consumption.	Reasoning
When water is actually used there would be consumption though water supplied gets recorded when water passes through the meter from the water mains.	Reasoning
But the analogy there of to the supply, consumption and sale of electric energy is inappropriate as it cannot be separately stored after the supply but before consumption or sale thereof.	Reasoning
However, water can incidentally be stored or remain in pipe for use and after tap is opened it is consumed.	Reasoning
Even if it percolates it may be a loss to the consumer.	Reasoning
This operation thereof is inapt.	Reasoning
Its analogy to electricity is, therefore, inapt and inappropriate.	Reasoning
The question then is whether the Electricity Duty Act gets eclipsed with the passing of the Act occupying the same field as the Act ?	None
In Bisra Stone Lime Company Ltd. v. Orissa State Electricity Board, 1976(2)	None
SCR 307, it was held that surcharge on electricity is an additional tax, The word surcharge is not defined in the Act, but etymologically, inter alia, surcharge stands for an additional or extra charge or payment.	None
Surcharge is thus a superadded charge, a charge over and above the usual or current dues.	None
The term surcharge in substance is an addition to the stipulated rate of tariff.	None
The nomenclature, therefore, does not alter the position.	None
In CIT v. K. Srinivasan, 1972(4) SCC 526, the question arose whether the term incometax as defined in Section 2 of the Finance Act, 1964 would include surcharge and additional charge, wherever provided.	None
This Court had held that the word surcharge includes additional tax.	None
The whole proceeds of any such charge were to form part of the revenue of the State.	None
In C.V. Rajagopalachariar v. State of Madras, AIR 1960 Mad 543 , in the context of the Madras Land Revenue Surcharge Act, 1954 and the Madras Land Revenue Surcharge Act, 1954 and the Madras Land Revenue (Additional Surcharge) Act, 1955, interpretation of the word surcharge came up for consideration.	None
The ratio of the said case is that surcharge includes an excess or additional burden or amount of money charged in excess of the land revenue and, therefore, it was held to be an additional land revenue.	None
That ratio was approved by this Court in Sarojini Tea Co. (P) Ltd. v. Collector of Dibrugarh, 1992(2) SCC 156.	None
Considering, in extenso, this Court had in paragraph 16 that the expression surcharge in the context of taxation means an additional imposition which results in enhancement of the tax and the nature of the additional imposition is the same as the tax on which it is imposed as surcharge.	None
The nature of such imposition is the same, viz., land revenue on which it is a surcharge.	None
It would thus be settled law that surcharge is additional duty or tax imposed in addition to the original levy, on the same topic.	None
In A.B. Abdul Kadir v. State of Kerala, 1976(2)	None
SCR 60, the Finance Act, 1950 had extended the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 to Part B State of Travancore Cochin and repealed the Cochin Tobacco Act, 1909 and the Tobacco Act (1 of 1087).	None
Thereafter, a system of licensing was introduced by which the licensees were required to pay a specified fee in respect of tobacco imported into the State.	None
The appellants thereafter had challenged in the High Court the collection of the licence fee for the period.	None
The Act was declared ultra vires and a refund was ordered to be made of the fees so collected.	None
When the appellants thereafter filed a writ petition claiming refund, pending writ petition, Kerala Luxury Tax on Tobacco (Validation) Act, 1964 was enacted by the State legislature to provide for the levy of luxury tax on tobacco and validated the levy and collection of the fees for licences within the specified period which had received the assent of the President.	None
When the validity thereof was challenged on the anvil of Article 304 (b) of the Constitution, this Court had held that the levy was sought to be made as a luxury tax as a different character on the production and manufacture of the tobacco was justified and that, therefore, it was within the legislative competence to enact the law refusing refund of the collections illegally collected.	None
Levy of duty goes into the public revenue.	Reasoning
It is an impost, a compulsory exaction for the benefit to the coffers of the public exchequer and, therefore, it is a tax.	Reasoning
The Act in pith and substance is a tax on sale or consumption of electrical energy.	Reasoning
Therefore, the Act falls in Entry 53 and does not fall in Entry 27 of the State List of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	Reasoning
The State legislature, therefore, validly enacted the Act under Article 246 (3) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The next question is whether the validation provision contained in Section 11 is constitutional ?	None
Section 11 of the Act reads thus Validation.  	None
(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any judgment.	None
decree or order of any Court, the levy and collection of surcharge by the Board or other licensees on or after the 1st day of October, 1984 and before the 1st day of August, 1988 under the Kerala State Electricity Supply (Kerala State Electricity Board and Licensees, Areas)	Reasoning
Surcharge Order, 1984, shall be deemed to be, and deemed always to have been validly levied and collected as if the said Order was a notified order under Section 3 of this Ordinance and accordingly(a) all acts, proceedings, or things done by the Board or other licensees in connection with such levy, collection and remittance of surcharge shall, for all purposes be deemed to be, and deemed always to have been, done or taken in accordance with this Ordinance(b) no suit or other proceedings shall be maintained or continued in any Court for the refund of any such surcharge and(c)	None
no Court shall enforce a decree or order directing the refund of any such surcharge.(2)	None
For the removal of doubts.	None
it is hereby declared that nothing in subsection (1) shall be considered as preventing any person from claiming refund of any surcharge already paid in excess of the amount due from him under the order referred to in subsection (1).	Reasoning
A reading thereof clearly indicates that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any judgment, decree or order of any Court, the levy and collection of surcharge by the Board or other licensees on or after the 1st day of October, 1984 and before the 1st day of August, 1988 under the Kerala State Electricity Supply (Kerala State Electricity, Board and Licensees Area)	Reasoning
Surcharge Order, 1984, shall be deemed to be, and deemed always to have been validly levied and collected as if the said Order was a notified order under Section 3 of the (Act 22 of 1984).	Reasoning
Accordingly all acts, proceedings or things done by the Board or other licensees in connection with such levy, collection and remittance of surcharge shall, for all purposes be deemed to be, and deemed always to have been, done or taken in accordance with the Act.	Reasoning
Subsection (2) removes the doubts declaring that nothing in subsection (1) shall be considered as preventing any person from claiming refund of any surcharge already paid in excess of the amount due from him under the order referred to in subsection (1).33.	Reasoning
It is seen that the Act does not limit to the period covered under Section 11 of the Validation Act.	Reasoning
Section 3 with a non obstante clause provides that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any agreement entered into with any consumer or the conditions or service agreed by the Board, the Government may by notified order provide for the levy and collection of surcharge on all HT and EHT supplies of energy made by the Board whether directly or through licensees at such rates not exceeding 3 paise per unit, as may be specified therein etc.	Reasoning
It is an Act to remain operational in future.	Reasoning
Admittedly, the Act is permanent statute operating prospectively and retrospectively validating past transactions as if they have been made, entered into or transacted under the Act.34.	Reasoning
While making the Validation Act, as seen, Section 6 provides for recoveries and Section 7 provides for penalties.	Reasoning
Section 8 prescribes offences by companies and Section 9 gives rule making power to effectuate the purpose of the Act by making rules enumerated thereunder to give effect to the provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
Section 10 provides protection of actions taken by the officers in good faith.	Reasoning
Section 4 deals with books of accounts to be maintained by the licensees and Section 5 authorises officers for inspection of the books of accounts maintained by the licensees.	Reasoning
It would thus be clear that the Act is a complete and selfcontained code in itself.	None
The question, therefore, is whether Section 11 is an antijudical power interfering with or encroaching into judicial review entrusted to the Courts, a basic feature of the Constitution and whether it directly overrules the judgment of the High Court ?	Issue
In view of specific stand and vehement contention that the legislature can, under no circumstance, nullify mandamus or direction issued by a Court, we have to survey the decided cases in which relevant principles were laid by this Court.	None
The primary question is whether the legislature has trespassed and trenched into the preserve of the basic feature of judicial review.	None
The principle of power of validation, vested in the legislature is no longer res integra.	None
A Constitution Bench of this Court in Shri Prithvi Cotton Mills Ltd. v. Broach Municipality, 1970(1)	None
SCR 388 which is an erudite leading judgment on this topic, laid by an unanimous Constitution Bench of five Judges that Section 17 of the Bombay Municipal Boroughs Act, 1925 empowers the municipality to levy rate on building or lands or both situate within the municipality.	None
The rules made under the Act applied the rates on the percentage basis on the capital value of lands and buildings.	None
In Patel Gordhandas Hargovindas v. Municipal Commissioner, Ahmedabad, 1964(2)	None
SCR 608, this Court had held that the term rate must be given the special meaning it had acquired in English law and must be confined to an impost on the basis of the annual letting value it could not be validly levied on the basis of capital value though capital value could be used for the purpose of working out the annual letting value.	None
Thereafter, Gujarat legislature amended the Act and enacted Gujarat Imposition of Tax by Municipalities (Validation) Act, 1963.	None
Section 3 thereof which validated past assessments and collections on rate, on lands and building, on the basis of capital value or a percentage of capital value was declared valid, despite any judgment of a Court or Tribunal to the contrary.	None
Further assessment and collection on the basis of capital value for the period from and after the Validation Act was authorised.	None
Section 99 was enacted in the Gujarat Municipalities Act to provide for the levy of a tax on lands and buildings to be based on the annual letting value or the capital value or a percentage of capital value of the buildings or lands or both.	None
The same was questioned and the High Court dismissed the writ petition.	None
On appeal, when the constitutionality thereof was challenged, this Court observed as under (at p. 195 of AIR)	None
When a legislature sets out to validate a tax declared by a Court to be illegally collected under an ineffective or an invalid law, the cause for ineffectiveness or invalidity must be removed before validation can be said to take place effectively.	None
The most important condition, of course, is that the legislature must possess the power to impose the tax, for, if it does not.	None
the action must ever remain ineffective and illegal.	None
Granted legislative competence, it is not sufficient to declare merely that the decision of the Court shall not bind for that is tantamount to reversing the decision in exercise of judicial power which the legislature does not possess or exercise.	None
A Courts decision must always bind unless the conditions of which it is based are so fundamentally altered that the decision could not have been given in the altered circumstances.	None
Ordinarily, a Court holds a tax to be invalidly imposed because the power to tax is wanting or the statute or the rules or both are invalid or do not sufficiently create the jurisdiction.	None
Validation of a tax so declared illegal may be done only if the grounds of illegality or invalidity are capable of being removed and are in fact removed and the tax thus made legal.	None
Sometimes this is done by providing for jurisdiction where jurisdiction had not been properly invested before.	None
Sometimes this is done by reenacting retrospectively a valid and legal taxing provisions and then by fiction making the tax already collected to stand under the reenacted law.	None
Sometimes the legislature gives its own meaning and interpretation of the law under which the tax was collected and by legislative fiat makes the new meaning binding upon Courts.	None
The legislature may follow any one method or all of them and while it does so it may neutralise the effect of the earlier decision of the Court which becomes ineffective after the change of the law.	None
Whichever method is adopted it must be within the competence of the legislature and legal and adequate to attain the object of validation.	None
If the legislature has the power over the subjectmatter and competence to make a valid law, it can at any time make such a valid law and make it retrospectively so as to bind even past transactions.	None
The validity of a validating law, therefore, depends upon whether the legislature possesses the competence which it claims over the subjectmatter and whether in making the validation it removes the defect which the Courts had found in the existing law and makes adequate provisions in the validating law for a valid imposition of the tax .	None
This Court upheld the constitutionality of the impugned enactment.	None
The validity of the validating Act is to be judged by the following tests (i) whether the legislation enacting the validating Act has competence over the subject matter (ii) whether by validation, the legislature has removed the defect which the Court had found in the previous law (ii) whether the validating law is inconsistent with the provisions of Chapter III of the Constitution.	None
If these tests are satisfied, the Act can confer jurisdiction upon the Court with retrospective effect and validate the past transactions which were declared to be unconstitutional.	None
The legislature cannot assume power of adjudicating a case by virtue of its enactment of the law without leaving it to the judiciary to decide it with reference to the law in force.	None
The legislature also is incompetent to overrule the decision of a Court without properly removing the base on which the judgment is founded.	None
In State of Orissa v. Oriental Paper Mills Ltd., AIR 1961 SC 1438 , the Oriental Paper Millsassessee had successfully challenged the assessability of the sales tax.	None
After the judgment was delivered by this Court in State of Bombay v. United Motors India Ltd., 1953 SCR 1069 , the State legislature enacted Section 14A and incorporated by way of an amendment Act 25 of 1958 to the Orissa Sales Tax Act.	None
When the constitutionality thereof was challenged on refusal to grant refund of the tax paid under the invalid law, contending that Section 14A deprived the assessee of the common law right to claim refund of the amount paid as tax under the invalid law, this Court had held that the legislature was competent to exercise the power in respect of the subsidiary or ancillary matters of granting refund of tax inappropriately or illegally collected.	None
Therefore, Section 14A validating the illegal collection and refusal of the refund was upheld as valid.	None
It was also held that it was not in violation of Article 19 (1) (f) of the Constitution.	None
In M s. Misrilal Jain v. State of Orissa, 1977(3) SCC 212, a larger Bench of seven Judges was required to construe the provisions of Orissa Taxation (on Goods Carried by Roads or Inland Waterways) Act, 8 of 1968.	None
By a judgment dated August 10, 1967 this Court had declared the Orissa Taxation (on Goods Carried by Roads or Inland Waterways) Act, 1962 as invalid since it did not cure the defect from which the Orissa Taxation (on Goods Carried by Roads or Inland Waterways) Act, 7 of 1959 had suffered.	None
It was further held that the State was not entitled to recover any tax, Under the Validation Act 8 of 1968 the imposition of the same levy which the State had unsuccessfully attempted to levy earlier was validated.	None
After the enactment of the Bill, previous assent of the President was obtained removing the defect pointed out earlier.	None
In para 6, it was unanimously held by the Bench that the legislature cured the constitutional vice from which the Act of 1959 suffered, by obtaining the requisite sanction of the President and thus armed, it imposed as new tax though with retrospective effect.	None
The imposition of the taxes or validation of the action under void law is not the function of the judiciary and, therefore, by taking these steps, the legislature cannot be accused of trespassing on the preserve of the judiciary.	None
Courts have to be vigilant to ensure that noncompliance of power so thoughtfully conceived by our Constitution is not allowed to be upset but the concern for safeguarding the judicial power does not justify conjuring up trespassers for invalidating laws.	None
If the vice from which an enactment suffered is cured by due compliance with the legal or constitutional requirements, the legislature has the competence to validate the enactment and such validation does not constitute an encroachment on the function of the judiciary.	None
It was held at page 218 that the legislature can pass laws with retrospective effect nullifying the mandamus issued by the Court.	None
In M s. Tirath Ram Rajindra Nath, Lucknow v. State of U.P., 1973(3) SCC 585, Section 3 of the U. P. Sales Tax Act, 1948 imposes multipoint sales tax on the sale of certain goods.	None
Section 3A empowered the Government to levy sales tax on some of the goods at such single point in the series of sales by successive dealers as may be prescribed by the State Government.	None
Rules had been made whereunder State got power to impose sales tax on the total turnover of the sale of bricks at the point of sale by the manufacture.	None
The U. P. Sales Tax Act (Amendment and Validation) Ordinance, 1970 was amended substituting such single point of sale as the State Government may specify.	None
In Gurnamal v. State of U.P., 26 STC 270 1970 All LJ 584, the Allahabad High Court had held that before attracting Section 3A, the goods must have been the subject matter of multiple sales.	None
The notification did not fall within the purview of Section 3A as bricks were sold directly to the consumers by the manufacturers.	None
Section 3A (1) was amended with retrospective effect by U. P. Sales Tax (Amendment and Validation) Act, 1970.	None
The validity thereof was questioned.	None
The High Court had held that Section 3 A(1), as amended was unconstitutional as it delegated essential legislative functions to the State Government.	None
Allowing the appeal and upholding the validity, this Court had held that this Court has pointed out in several cases the distinction between encroachment on the judicial power and nullification of the effect of a judicial decision by changing the law retrospectively.	None
The former is outside the competence of the legislature but the latter is within its permissible limits.	None
The legislature had not purported either directly or by necessary implication to overrule the decision of the Allahabad High Court.	None
On the other hand it had accepted the decision as correct but had removed the basis of the decision by retrospectively changing the law.	None
In Govt.	None
of A.P. v. Hindustan Machine Tools Ltd., AIR 1975 SC 2037 , the respondent had constructed its factory and other buildings within the limits of Gram Panchayat K, without its permission.	None
Gram panchayat passed a resolution to collect permissions fee from the respondent on the capital value of the factory building at a specified rate.	None
They also imposed house tax and demanded payment for the period 1966 to 1969.	None
The writ petition was filed challenging the power to levy house tax and other fees.	None
The A. P. High Court issued a mandamus prohibiting the Gram Panchayat from collecting the amounts.	None
The High Court had held that as per the definition of the house under the Act, the factory and other building was not a house.	None
Against the judgment an appeal was filed in this Court.	None
Pending appeal, the legislature amended the definition house with retrospective effect so as to eliminate the impediment on which the High Court rested its judgment.	None
It is also made validation of the actions by Section 4 of the Validation Act with retrospective effect.	None
On that basis when it was contended in this Court for the respondent that the legislature had overruled or set aside the judgment of the High Court and it was constitutionally impermissible, a Bench of three Judges had held that the State legislature had not overruled or set aside the judgment of the High Court.	None
It had amended the definition of the house by substituting a new section in the place of an old one, providing a new definition which had retrospective effect, notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, decree or order of the Court or other authority.	None
In other words, this Court had held that the legislature removed the basis of the decision rendered by the High Court so that the decision could not have been given in the altered circumstances.	None
In I.N. Saksena v. State of M. P., 1976(3) SCR 237, the State Government amended its memorandum to compulsorily retire a government servant of attaining the superannuation of 58 years.	None
However, it empowered the Government to retire a Government servant on his attaining the age of 55 years.	None
Subsequently, statutory rules under proviso to Art. 309 of the Constitution were formed.	None
However, the clause to retire a Government servant on attaining the age of 55 years was not incorporated, though the superannuation was retained at 58 years.	None
The appellant, judicial officer was compulsorily retired on his completion of 55 years.	None
He successfully challenged the order of retirement which was upheld by this Court.	None
A Constitution Bench of this Court had held that the distinction between legislative act and judicial act is well known.	None
The adjudication of the right of the parties is a judicial function.	None
The legislature has to lay down the law prescribing the norms or conduct which will govern the parties and transactions to require the Court to give effect to that law.	None
Validating legislation which removes the norms of invalidity of action or providing remedy is not an encroachment on judicial power.	None
Statutory rule made under the Proviso to Article 309 was upheld.	None
The legislature cannot by a bare declaration, without anything more, directly overrule, reverse or override a judicial decision at any time in exercise of the plenary power confer on the legislature by Arts.	None
245 and 246 of the Constitution.	None
It can render a judicial decision ineffective by enacting a valid law on a topic within its legislative field, fundamentally altering or changing with retrospective, curative or nullifying effect, the conditions on which such a decision is based.	Reasoning
In Hari Singh v. Military Estate Officer, 1973(1) SCR 515, prior to 1958 two alternative modes of eviction under Public Premises Act were available.	None
When the eviction was sought of an unauthorised occupant by summary procedure the constitutionality thereof was challenged and upheld.	None
The Act was subsequently amended in 1958 with retrospective operation from September 16, 1958.	None
Thereunder only one procedure for eviction was available.	None
It was contended to be a legislative encroachment of judicial power.	None
A Bench of three Judges held that the legislature possessed competence over the subject matter and the Validation Act could remove the defect which the Court had found in the previous case.	None
It was not the legislative encroachment of judicial power but one of removing the defect which the Court had pointed out with a deeming date.	None
In A.B. Abdul Kadir v. State of Kerala, 1976(2)	None
SCR 960, in the previous decision rendered in A.B. Abdulkadir v. State of Kerala, 1962 Supp.(2)	None
SCR 741, the Cochin Tobacco Act and the Rules made thereunder and the similar Acts were in substance corresponding to the Central Excises and Salt Act. 1944.	None
The Cochin Tobacco Act stood repealed on April 1, 1950.	None
Consequently, there was no law operating to pay licence fee.	None
The Rules made in the 1950 and 1951 the repealed Act were held void ab initio.	None
Thereafter, Kerala State Legislature enacted Kerala Luxury Tax on Tobacco (Validation) Act, 1964.	None
Section 5 thereof validated the levy and demand changing the character of the levy from fee to the tax.	None
When the constitutionality of the Validation Act was challenged, a threeJudge Bench had held that the State Legislature had competence to enact luxury tax on tobacco and to recover the tax in the shape of licence fee for vend and stocking of tobacco.	None
The legislature, therefore, has competence to convert the character of collection from impermissible excise duty into permissible luxury tax which would not render the Act unconstitutional.	None
Only conditions are that the levy should be of a nature which can answer to the description of luxury tax and the State legislature should be competent to enact the law for recovery of luxury tax.	None
It was held that both the conditions were satisfied.	None
Accordingly the impugned enactment was upheld as valid.	None
Validation Act can also be provided for retrospective operation of the said provision validating the law which had been found to be invalid.	None
In Central Coal Fields Ltd. v. Bhubaneswar Singh, 1984(4) SCC 429, this Court had declared that the sale price of the stock of extracted coal lying at the commencement of the appointed date had to be taken into account to determine the profit and loss during the period of management of the mines by the Central Government taken over under Section 3 of the Coking Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1972.	None
Therefore, Coal Mines Nationalisation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1986 was enacted.	None
In Section 10, subsection (2) of the principal Act, amount payable as compensation was to be deemed to include and deemed always to have included the amount required to be paid to the owner in respect of coal in stock on the date immediately before the appointed date.	None
It was contended that the deeming provision was encroachment on the judicial power and was, therefore, unconstitutional.	None
Repelling the contention in Bhubaneshwar Singh v. Union of India, 1994(6) SCC 77, a threeJudge Bench of this Court had held that when the validating legislation removed cause of the validity it could not be considered to be an encroachment on judicial power.	None
Any action in exercise of the power under the enactment which has been declared to be invalid by that Court cannot be made valid by validating Act by merely saying so unless the defect which has been pointed out by the Court is removed with retrospective effect.	None
Unless the invalidity or lack of validity pointed out by the Court is removed by subsequent enactment with retrospective effect, the binding nature of the judgment of the Court cannot be ignored.	None
Same is the view taken in Udai Ram Sharma v. Union of India, 1968(3) SCR 41, Krishan Chandra Gangopadhyaya v. Union of India, 1975 Supp.	None
SCR 151, Hindustan Gum and Chemicals Ltd. v. State of Haryana, 1985 Supp (2) SCR 630, Utkal Contractors and Joinery (P) Ltd. v. State of Orissa, 1988(1)	None
SCR 314 and approved by this Court in Bhubaneshwar Singhs case (1994 (6) SCC 77 ) (supra).	None
In State of Orissa v. Gopal Chandra Rath, 1995(6) SCC 242, in the context of service law, validating statute with retrospective effect was affirmed by this Court.	None
In Janapada Sabha, Chhindwara v. Central Provinces Syndicate Ltd., 1970(3) SCR 745, this Court in its earlier decision in Amalgamated Coalfieds Ltd v. The Janapada Sabha, Chhindwara, 1963 Supp (1) SCR 172, had held that the expression first imposition occurred in Section 51(2) of the C. P. and Bear Local Government Act, 4 of 1920.	None
The imposition of levy at the rate of 9 paise per tonne was declared illegal.	None
Direction was issued restraining the Government to recover the same.	None
The Madhya Pradesh Act, 1964 was made and Section 3 thereof validated the invalid imposition assessment and collection of cess.	None
A Constitution Bench had held that Act 18 of 1964 is a piece of clumsy drafting.	None
By a fiction, it deemed the Act of 1920 and the Rules framed thereunder to have been amended without disclosing the text or even the nature of the amendment nor was there any indication that the invalid notification must be deemed to have been issued validly under Section 51 (2) of the 1920 Act without the sanction of the local Government.	None
It was, therefore, held that it is plain that the legislature attempted to overrule or set aside the decision of this Court.	None
It was open to the legislature under the Constitutional Scheme within certain limits, to amend the provisions of the Act retrospectively and to declare what the law shall be deemed to have been.	None
But it was not open to the legislature to say that the judgment of the Court properly constituted and rendered, shall be deemed to be ineffective and the interpretation of the law shall be otherwise than as declared by the Court.	None
In Municipal Corporation of the City of Ahmedabad v. New Shrock Spg.	None
Wvg. Co. Ltd., 1970(2) SCC 280, in a previous proceeding like the respondent therein, this Court in New Manek Chowk Spinning Weaving Mills Co. Ltd. v. Municipal Corporation of the City of Ahmedabad, 1967(2)	None
SCR 679, struck down the rules framed under the Bombay Provincial Municipality and Corporation Act, 1948 permitting the Corporation to value the land and building on flat rate method.	None
Writ of mandamus issued directing the municipality to treat the relevant entries as assessment books for the relevant years, was held to be invalid and cancelled.	None
Section 152A was amended by Gujarat Amendment Act, 1968.	None
When it was challenged, this Court had pointed out that the Corporation was not entitled to withhold the amounts illegally collected and writ of mandamus was issued directing the refund.	None
Again subsection (3) of Section 152A was introduced validating the collections by Gujarat Amendment and Validation Ordinance, 1969, authorising the Corporation and its officers to refuse to refund the amount of tax illegally collected despite the orders of this Court as well as of the Gujarat High Court, this Court had held that the legislature had no power to disobey or disregard the decision given by the Courts.	None
Section 152A (3) was declared unconstitutional.	None
In State of Tamil Nadu v. M. Rayappa Gounder, AIR 1971 SC 231 , in a writ, the Madras High Court had held that the State had no power to reassess the escaped turnover under the Entertainment Tax Act, 1939.	None
In 1966, Amendment Act containing a validating provision was introduced by Section 7 thereof.	None
This Court had held that the said section did not change the law retrospectively.	None
It attempted to validate invalid assessments and to overrule the decision of the High Court, Section 7 was, therefore, held invalid.	None
In Madan Mohan Pathak v. Union of India, 1978(3)	None
SCR 334, on the basis of a settlement, bonus became payable by the LIC to its Class III and Class IV employees.	None
In a writ, a single Judge of the Calcutta High Court issued mandamus directing payment of bonus as provided in the settlement.	None
During the pendency of Letter Patent Appeal, LIC (Modification of Settlement) Act, 1976, was enacted denying bonus payable to the employees.	None
The appeal was withdrawn.	None
The validity of 1976 Act was challenged in this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution.	None
A Bench of seven Judges had held that the Parliament was not aware of the mandamus issued by the Court and it was declared that the 1976 Act was void and writ of mandamus was issued to obey the mandamus by implementing or enforcing the provisions of that Act and directed payment of bonus in terms of the settlement.	None
It was pointed out that there was no reference to the judgment of the High Court in the statement of objects and reasons, nor any non obstante clause referring to the judgment of the Court was made in Section 3 of the Act.	None
Attention of the Parliament was not drawn to the mandamus issued by the High Court.	None
When the mandamus issued by the High Court became final, the 1976, Act was held invalid.	None
Shri R. F. Nariman laid special emphasis on the observations of learned Chief Justice Beg who in a separate judgment had pointed out that the basis of the mandamus issued by the Court not be taken away by indirect fashion as observed at page 743, C to F. From the observations made by Bhagwati, J. per majority, it is clear that this Court did not intend to lay down that Parliament, under no circumstance, has power to amend the law removing the vice pointed out by the Court.	None
Equally, the observation of Chief Justice Beg is to be understood in the context that as long as the effect of mandamus issued by the Court is not legally and constitutionally made ineffective, the State is bound to obey the directions.	None
Thus understood, it is unexceptionable.	None
But it does not mean that the learned Chief Justice intended to lay down the law that mandamus issued by Court cannot at all be made ineffective by a valid law made by the legislature removing the defect pointed out by the Court.	None
Subsequently, notice was issued on March 3, 1978, by the LIC to the workmen under Section 19 (2) of the Industrial Disputes Act declaring its intention to terminate the settlement on the expiry of the period of two months from that date, Another notice was issued under Section 9A of that Act intending to effect a change from June 1, 1978 in the conditions of service of the workmen.	None
The Central Government on May 26, 1978, issued a notification under Section 49 of the LIC Act substituting a new Regulation for the existing Regulation.	None
Simultaneously, an Amendment on the similar lines was made in 1957.	None
Order adding a new clause in subsection (2) of Section 11 of the LIC Act.	None
All of them came to be challenged by filing a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution which was allowed by the High Court.	None
Per majority, this Court had held in The Life Insurance Corporation of India v. D.J. Bahadur, 1981(2) SCR 1083, that the entire attempt was to avoid compliance of the mandamus issued by the Calcutta High Court and, therefore, it was declared invalid.	None
It directed the LIC to give effect to the terms of the settlement of 1974, relating to bonus until superseded by a fresh settlement and industrial award or relevant legislation.	None
Thereafter, the LIC (Amendment) Act, 1981, was enacted.	None
Subsection (2) of Section 48, (2A), (2B) and (2C) were added providing regulation by the other provisions in respect of terms and conditions of service of the employees w. e. f.	None
January 31, 1981.	None
Subsection (2B) empowered the LIC to make rules under Clause (cc) of subsection (2) to include power to give retrospective effect to such rules and to amend by way of addition, variation or repeal, the regulations of the other provisions contained in subsection (2A) with retrospective effect but not from June 20, 1979, Subsection (2C) provided validating clause with usual language.	None
The same was challenged under Article 32 of the Constitution and this Court understood in that perspective it in A.V. Nachane v. Union of India, 1982(2)	None
SCR 246, while upholding the validation with effect from the date the Amendment had come into force, declared the retrospective legislation as unconstitutional holding that the rules sought to abrogate the terms of 1974 settlement relating to bonus which would be complied with pursuant to the mandamus issued by the High Court.	None
Rule 3 sought to supersede the terms of 1974 settlement which could not make the writ petition issued by the Court nugatory in view of the decision in M. M. Pathaks case (AIR 1978 SC 803 ) (supra), and the Amendment did not have the effect of nullifying the writ of mandamus issued by the Calcutta High Court and in D. J. Bahadurs case, (AIR 1980 SC 2181 ).	None
The directions in Bahadurs case, did not stand neutralised.	None
In D. Cawasji Co.	None
Mysore v. State of Mysore, 1984 Supp SCC 490, the High Court in a writ filed by the appellant had held that the State Government was devoid of power under Section 19 of the Sales Tax Act to collect Sales Tax and excise duty which is not a part of the selling price.	None
Mandamus for refund was issued.	None
Appeal filed in this Court was withdrawn and the Sales Tax (Amendment) Act was enacted enhancing Sales Tax from original 6 per cent to 45 per cent with retrospective effect.	None
Section 3, validated the previous assessments.	None
This Court struck down the amendment so far as it related to retrospectivity pointing out that the lacunas pointed out by the Court was not cured and the judgment could not be nullified by legislative amendment.	None
In State of Haryana v. Karnal Coop.	None
Farmers Society Ltd., 1993(2) SCC 363, Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulations) Act, 1961, the preexisting law was invalidated under 1961 Act.	None
Shamilat deh land was not defined to achieve certain objects which did not find place in the repealed Acts and 1961 (Amendment) Act declared that the definition shall be deemed to have applied to all lands which are shamilat deh as defined in 1961 Act with a non obstante clause.	None
The validity thereof was challenged.	None
This Court held that the Amendment Act was unconstitutional abrogating the civil Courts order in respect of the lands covered by the definition of shamilat deh.	None
In Re Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal, (1993) Supp (1) SCC 96 (2) (1992 AIR SCW 119), the InterState Water Disputes Tribunal constituted under InterState Water Disputes Act, 1956, under Article 262, directed the Karnataka State by an interim order to release water to Tamil Nadu.	None
The Governor passed Karnataka Cauvery Basin Irrigation Protection Ordinance, 1991, nullifying the Tribunals order.	None
On a reference, a Constitution Bench had held that the Article 262 of the Constitution, the power of this Court under Article 131 and all other powers had been taken away and vested in the Tribunal.	None
The Tribunals order was binding on the disputant States.	None
The Ordinance interfered with the obligatory process of the Tribunal.	None
Therefore, it amount to interference with the judicial power of the State vested in the Tribunal.	None
It ran counter to the binding decisions of the Court regarding the Tribunals power to grant interim relief.	None
Accordingly, it was declared unconstitutional.	None
It may be pointed out at this stage that this decision is on the anvil of constitutional operation of the special Tribunal constituted pursuant to the directions issued under the InterState Water Disputes Act which itself was made under the Constitution, conferring exclusive power on the Tribunal to adjudicate interState Water disputes.	None
In S.R. Bhagwat v. State of Mysore, 1995(4) SCC 16, the controversy related to Karnataka State Civil Services (Regulation of Promotion, Pay and Pension) Act, 1973.	None
A Division Bench of the High Court allowed the writ petitions and directed collection of the pay, posts, seniority and promotion with all consequential benefits on par with their juniors.	None
The Act was made denying financial benefits ad directed by the Division Bench which became final.	None
They were challenged under Article 32 and this Court held that a writ of mandamus or directions which had become final could not be nullified empowering the State to review such judgments and orders.	None
Therefore, all the provisions of the impugned Act were held ultra vires the powers of the State legislature.	None
From a resume of the above decision the following principles would emerge The adjudication of the right of the parties is the essential judicial function.	Reasoning
Legislature has to lay down the norms of conduct or rules which will govern the parties and the transactions and require the Court to give effect to them (2) The Constitution delineated delicate balance in the exercise of the sovereign power by the Legislature, Executive and Judiciary (3) In a democracy governed by rule of law, the Legislature exercises the power under Article 245 and 246 and other companion Articles read with the entries in the respective Lists in the Seventh Schedule to make the law which includes power to amend the law.(4) Courts in their concern and endeavour to preserve judicial power equally must be guarded to maintain the delicate balance devised by the Constitution between the three sovereign functionaries need freeplay in their joints so that the march of social progress and order remain unimpeded.	Reasoning
The smooth balance built with delicacy must always be maintained (5) In its anxiety to safeguard judicial power, it is unnecessary to be overzealous and conjure up incursion into the judicial preserve invalidating the valid law competently made(6)	Reasoning
The Court, therefore, need to carefully scan the law to find out (1) whether the vice pointed out by the Court and invalidity suffered by previous law is cured complying with the legal and constitutional requirements (b) whether the Legislature has competence to validate the law (c) whether such validation is consistent with the rights guaranteed in Part III of the Constitution.(7)	Reasoning
The Court does not have the power to validate an invalid law or to legalise impost of tax illegally made and collected or to remove the norm of invalidation or provide a remedy.	Reasoning
These are not judicial functions but the exclusive province of the Legislature.	Reasoning
Therefore, they are not the encroachment on judicial power.	None
In exercising legislative power, the Legislature by mere declaration, without anything more, cannot directly overrule, revise or override a judicial decision.	Reasoning
It can render judicial decision ineffective by enacting valid law on the topic within its legislative field fundamentally altering or changing its character retrospectively.	Reasoning
The changed or altered conditions are such that the previous decision would not have been rendered by the Court, if those conditions had existed at the time of declaring the law as invalid.	Reasoning
It is also empowered to give effect to retrospective legislation with a deeming date or with effect from a particular date.	Reasoning
The Legislature can change the character of the tax or duty from impermissible to permissible tax but the tax or levy should answer such character and the Legislature is competent to recover the invalid tax validating such a tax or removing the invalid base for recovery from the subject or render the recovery from the State ineffectual.	Reasoning
It is competent for the legislature to enact the law with retrospective effect and authorise its agencies to levy and collect the tax on that basis, make the imposition of levy collected and recovery of the tax made valid, notwithstanding the declaration by the Court or the direction given for recovery thereof.(9)	Reasoning
The consistent thread that runs through all the decisions of this Court is that the legislature cannot directly overrule the decision or make a direction as not binding on it but power to make the decision ineffective by removing the base on which the decision was rendered, consistent with the law of the Constitution and the Legislature must have competence to do the same.	None
Considered from these perspectives, the question is whether Section 11 can answer the tests laid down herinbefore.	Issue
It is seen that the duty was collected under an order made in exercise of Section 3 of the Essential Articles Act and it was held to be not a tax but a duty for the benefit of KSEB.	Reasoning
That duty being a compulsory exaction for the benefit of pubic exchequer is tax.	Reasoning
Duty on supply of electricity was declared to be additional burden and a levy within Entries 26 and 27 of List II, subject to Entry 33 of List III (Concurrent List).	Reasoning
Duty is an additional burden and partakes the character of a tax, Entry 53 of List II (State List) empowers he State Legislature to impose tax on consumption or sale of electricity.	Reasoning
It is therefore, a compulsory exaction for the benefit of the Revenue.	Reasoning
Therefore, it is an additional tax in the form of a duty under the Act.	Reasoning
The vice pointed out in Chakolas case, has been removed under the Act.	Reasoning
Consequently, Section 11 validated the invalidity pointed out in Chakolas case, removing the base.	Reasoning
In the altered situation, the High Court would not have rendered Chakolas case, under the Act.	Reasoning
It has made the writ issued in Chakolas case, ineffective.	Reasoning
Instead of refunding the duty illegally collected under invalid law.	Reasoning
Section 11 validated the illegal collections and directed the liability of the past transactions as valid under the Act and also fastened liability on the consumers.	Reasoning
In other words, the effect of Section 11 is that the illegal collection made under invalid law is to be retained and the same shall now stand validated under the Act.	Reasoning
Thus considered, we hold that Section 11 is not an incursion on judicial power of the Court and is a valid piece of legislation as part of the Act.58.	Reasoning
As already seen, the specific case of the State and the Board is that the State has been expending its public money for the effective functioning for the KSEB and the duty under the Act is flowing into the public exchequer and, therefore, it is not a duty for the benefit of KSEB coming under Essential Articles Act.	Reasoning
Equally, it is not either a threat to the power of judicial review or form of restraint to exercise the power of judicial review over legislative action.	Reasoning
It is true that under the Electricity Act which admittedly has been enacted under Entry 53 of the State List, the rate of duty, as amended, is 10 per cent, As stated above, under the Act duty is an additional impost in the nature of compulsory exaction for the benefit of public exchequer.	Reasoning
When we look into the provisions of the Act it is clear that levy and collection of additional duty is not discontinued as contended by Shri Venugopal.	Reasoning
As held above, the Act is a complete code in itself and operates retrospectively.	Reasoning
Therefore, both the Acts operate harmoniously and do not collide in their operation since 1984 Act is the principal Act and the Act is in addition to, but not in substitution of the principal Act.	Reasoning
Therefore, 1984 Act does not get eclipsed with the passing of the Act.59.	Reasoning
Under these circumstances, we hold that the Act is valid.	Decision
The direction with regard to the refund of duty for the period which the Act did not seek to cover, has already been given by the High Court and not appeal has rightly been filed by the State.	Decision
Therefore, to that extent that order has become final.	Decision
We need not dwell upon it.60.	Decision
The appeals are accordingly dismissed, but in the circumstances without costs.	Decision
Appeals dismissed.	None
