 Bhargava, J. 1.	None
The appellant assessee, who is an individual, carries on business of supplying lime and sand.	Facts
With the object of procuring sand, he obtained a leave under a leasedeed dated Ist February, 1954, from the then Govermnent of State of Hyderabad.	Facts
The terms of this lease, which are relevant for the purpose of deciding these appeals, will he indicated later.	Facts
At this stage, it may, be mentioned that, under this lease, the assessee was required to pay a sum of Rs 82,500/ as lease money to the Government.	Facts
The period of lease was found 1st February, 1954 to 31ist December, 1954.	Facts
The assessees account year ends with the last day of September each year.	Facts
The assessee paid a sum of Rs.	Facts
56,100/ in respect of the account year ended 30th September 1954 for the assessment year 195556 and another sum of Rs. 26,400/ for the account year ended 30th September, 1955 relevant to the assessment year 195657.	Facts
Both these payments were claimed by the assessee, in the proceedings for assessment to incometax, as revenue expenditure.	Facts
The Incometax Officer held that, under the leasedeed, the assessee had secured a right to quarry sand from the riverbed, which was a right in the nature of a capital assets, so that these payments made to secure the right were capital expenditure, and disallowed their deduction as revenue expenditure.	Facts
The assessee appealed to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner, in addition to the material provided by the terms of the leasedeed and other material before him, made a personal investigation also.	Facts
Thereafter, in his appellate order, he recorded findings that the lease was a shortterm contract for one year, that the contract was for removal of sand lying on the surface of the riverbeds within a specified period, and no excavation or skilful extraction was involved in the process, and that no interest in the land was conveyed to the lessee, and, if the lessee discovered any minerals not specified in the deed, he was required to report that fact to the Director of Mines and obtain a prospecting licence separately.	Facts
On these facts, he held that what the assessee had secured under the leasedeed was only stockintrade of his business and not a capital asset, so that his claim that the payments made by him under the leasedeed to the Government were deductible as revenue expenditure was allowed.	Facts
Thereupon, an appeal was brought before the Incometax Appellate Tribunal by the Department.	Facts
The Tribunal upheld the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	Facts
At the instance of the Department, the Tribunal then referred the following question for opinion to the High Court  Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the payments of Rs. 56,100 for the assessment year 195556 and Rs. 26.400 for the assessment year 195657 made under the lease deed dated 12, were expenditure of revenue nature ?	Facts
The High Court answered the question in the negative, accepting the case of the Department, and thus upsetting the decision given by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Tribunal.	Issue
The assessee has now come up to this Court in appeal by certificate granted by the High Court.	Facts
2. Learned counsel appearing for the assessee first contended before us that an examination of the terms of the leasedeed would show that no right at all in the land was acquired by the assessee under the lease and that the only right which had been acquired was the right to remove sand lying on the land constituting the beds of the river and the nallahs specified in the deed and the ancillary right to enter the land for that purpose.	Arguments of Petitioner
It appears to us that, on the language of the leasedeed, this submission cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
The lease specifically mentions in para 3 that, under it, the Government do hereby demise and grant unto the lessee exclusive lease and liberty to enter, occupy, and use for quarrying purpose and to raise, render marketable, carry away, sell and dispose of sand within or under or upon the lands specified in this lease and for the period named therein.	Reasoning
Thus, there was a specific provision that the lessee was to have an exclusive right to enter and occupy the land.	Reasoning
Further, was a provision that, in case any mineral not specified in the lease was discovered in this land, the lessee was to report such discovery to the Director of Mines and Geology and could obtain either a prospecting licence or a mining lease in respect of it, but, if he intimated his intention of not working the newly discovered mineral, or failed to give any intimation to work it within the period of three months, it would be open to the Government to sublet the working of such newly discovered mineral.	Reasoning
This use of the word sublet in the deed indicates that, though the Government reserved to it the right to allow some other person to work the newly discovered mineral, that person could only be admitted as a sublessee and, obviously, he would be the sublessee under the assessee.	Reasoning
These terms do indicate that an interest in land was also conveyed by the lease but that is, in our opinion, not decisive of the question whether the money payable under the lease was a capital expenditure or a revenue expenditure.	Reasoning
As an example, if a shop is taken on rent by a person to run his business and he pays monthly or annual rent, he certainly acquires an interest in the building and the land on which it stands as a lessee, but no one will contend that the payment of rent would be an expenditure of a capital nature and not revenue expenditure.	Reasoning
The decisive factor is the object with which the lease is taken and the nature of the payment which is being made when obtaining the lease.	Reasoning
3.	None
In the present case, there are a number of factors which lead to the conclusion that the expenditure incurred by the assessee in obtaining the lease was revenue expenditure for the purpose of obtaining stockintrade and not capital expenditure.	Reasoning
The first point is that the lease was for a very short period of 11 months only.	Reasoning
Consequently, it is clear that the assessee did not obtain any capital asset of an enduring nature by obtaining this lease.	Reasoning
Then the second circumstance is that the sole right which was acquired by him under the leasedeed was to take away the sand lying on the leased land.	Reasoning
No doubt, the document mentioned that he was entitled to raise render marketable, carry away, sell and dispose of the sand within or under or upon the land specified in this lease but there was a clear finding of fact recorded by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and affirmed by the Tribunal that all the sand that could be removed was lying on the surface and there was no question of raising, digging or excavating for the sand before obtaining it.	Reasoning
No operations were, therefore, to be performed on the land itself.	Reasoning
It appears that the High Court, in giving its decision against the assessee, fell into an error in not accepting the finding of fact that the sand was lying loose on the surface and the contract was only for removal of that sand and, instead, recording for itself a different finding.	Reasoning
In its appellate order, the Tribunal mentioned the findings of fact recorded by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and added It is to be noted that the findings of fact given by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner as quoted from this order above have not at all been challenged before us in these appeals.	None
The findings of fact to which this sentence referred, included the finding recorded by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner that it was a contract for removal of sand lying on the surface of the riverbeds within a specified period and no excavation or skilful extraction was involved.	None
No doubt, this finding of fact was partially based on the personal investigation made by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and this investigation was made, as held by the High Court, about six years after the lease contract had been entered into.	None
The High Court was of the view that it was difficult to see how, after a lapse of six years, the terms of the lease deed could be varied, altered or clarified so as to confer any benefit on the lessee, and that the leasedeed contained absolutely no reference to the accumulation of sand as the result of floods its lying loose on the surface and the lessee being allowed to remove the sand merely from the surface without digging underneath.	None
In examining this question of fact it is clear that the High Court exceeded its jurisdiction.	Reasoning
The finding of fact recorded by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner had been affirmed by the Tribunal and no question was referred to the High Court that it was a finding which was based on no evidence.	None
Whether the evidence on which the finding was accepted by the Tribunal was good or bad did not fall for consideration by the High Court.	None
The finding being binding on the High Court, that Court should have proceeded on the basis that these facts did exist and should have examined the legal position on that premise.	None
This circumstance that the sand was lying loose and merely required removal without any excavation or digging makes it clear that what the assessee was taking under the lease for the purpose of his business was the right to remove that sand and that he was not acquiring the land or any other rights in the land for any other purpose.	None
Then there is the additional fact that the lease was for a very short period of 11 months.	Reasoning
On these facts, the conclusion was irresistible that, in agreeing to pay this large sum of Rs. 82,500.	Reasoning
the assesses was bargaining for the right to remove the sand lying loose on the land within that short period of 11 months to the extent to which he could do so.	Reasoning
He did not acquire any fixed or capital asset of an enduring nature by obtaining this lease and all he had in view was to have the right to obtain his stockintrade in the form of sand.	Reasoning
4. During the course of arguments before us, a number of cases were brought to our notice which related to quarrying leases of various types in India and in England.	Reasoning
We do not consider it necessary to refer to those cases, because the question whether a particular expenditure is of a capital nature or is a revenue expenditure has always to be decided on the special facts of each case.	Reasoning
We may, however, make a reference to the decision of this Court in Gotan Lime Syndicate v. Commissioner of Incometax, Rajasthan and Delhi, 196659 ITR 718 (AIR 1966 SC 1564 ).	Reasoning
In that case also, Rule 13 of the Rajasthan Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 1955, which was applicable, provided that the lease shall be in respect of plots comprising of 5 square miles each.	Reasoning
The lessee was even entitled to transfer his lease or any right, title or interest therein to a person holding a certificate of approval on payment of a fee, subject to the previous sanction of the Director of Mines and Geology, and subject to some other conditions.	Reasoning
Rule 18 prescribed a period of 5 years for a lease and the lease was renewable at the option of the assessee for a further period of five years.	Reasoning
Even on these facts, this Court held that the lessee in that case, in obtaining the lease and paying lease money, had not incurred an expenditure of a capital nature, and was entitled to claim that the lease money paid by him was a revenue expenditure.	Reasoning
In that case also, thus, the lease was in respect of plots, so that interest in land was conveyed, but the Court, on considering the object of the lease and the manner in winch the rights under it were to be exercised, came to the finding that no capital expenditure was involved and that the only right acquired was the right to obtain raw material from the leased land.	Reasoning
The payment was not for securing an enduring advantage.	Reasoning
In the case before us, the facts are much stronger in favour of the assessee.	Reasoning
The period of lease is shorter and the only object of the lease is to remove sand lying loose on the surface, without exercising any other right on the land included in the lease.	Reasoning
5.	None
In Bombay Steam Navigation Co. (1953) Private Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay, 196556 ITR 52 at p. 59 (AIR 1965 SC 1201 at p. 1205), this Court explained the principle of determining the nature of an expenditure.	None
The Court held Whether a particular expenditure is revenue expenditure incurred for the purpose of business must be determined on a consideration of all the facts and circumstances, and by the application of principles of commercial trading.	None
The question must be viewed in the larger context of business necessity or expediency.	None
If the outgoing or expenditure is so related to the carrying on or conduct of the business, that it may be regarded as an integral part of the profitearning process and not for acquisition of an asset or a right of a permanent character, the possession of which is a condition of the carrying on of the business, the expenditure may be regarded as revenue expenditure.	None
Clearly, in the present case, the expenditure incurred by the assessee was not related to the acquisition of an asset or a right of a permanent character.	None
It was for the specific object of enabling the assessee to remove and lying loose on the surface which was the stockintrade of the business of the assessee, so that the expenditure has to be regarded as revenue expenditure.	Reasoning
6.	None
Counsel appearing for the Department relied on a decision of this Court in K. T. M. T. M. Abdul Kayoom v. Commissioner of Incometax, Madras. 196244	Arguments of Respondent
ITR 689 at p. 707 (AIR 1962 SC 680 at p. 690).	Arguments of Respondent
The majority judgment in that case shows that the assessee, which was carrying on business in conch shells locally known as chanks, took on lease the exclusive right, liberty and authority to take and carry away all chanks found in the sea for a period of three years ending on June, 30, 1947 along a specified portion of the coast.	None
The consideration of Rs. 6,111 per year was payable in advance.	None
It was held on the facts of that case that this expenditure was of the nature of capital expenditure and not revenue expenditure.	None
On the face of it the distinguishing feature was that, in that case, the lessee had to obtain fish from the sea and, consequently, had to operate in the waters of the sea itself, and that was the main reason why the Court held against the assessee.	None
This difference is clearly brought out in the judgment of the majority where it was held  	None
This is not a case of so much clay or so much saltpetre or a dump of tailings or leaves on the trees in a forest.	None
The two modes in which the respondent did the business furnish adequate distinguishing characteristics.	None
Here is an agreement to reserve a source, where the respondent hoped to find shells which, when found, became its stockintrade but which, in situ, were no more the firms than a shell in the deepest part of the ocean beyond the reach of its divers and nets.	None
The expenses of fishing shells were its current expenses as also the expenses incurred over the purchase of shells from the divers.	None
But to say that the payment of lease money for reserving an exclusive right to fish for chanks was on a par with payments of the other character is to err.	None
7.	None
It is clear that, in the present case, there is no such reservation of an exclusive right in respect of any land.	None
In fact, the first sentence in the quotation above is clearly applicable to the present case if, for the word clay, the word sand is substituted.	Reasoning
The present is a case where sand lying loose on the surface of the land is to be removed and the whole object of the lease was to obtain the right to the sand which was to be the stockintrade of the assessee.	Reasoning
The appeals are, consequently allowed with costs the order of the High Court is set aside and the question referred is answered in the affirmative.	Decision
8.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
