Chelameswar, J. Leave granted The appellant herein was declared elected to the 15th Lok Sabha from No.4 New Delhi Lok Sabha Constituency in the election held in the year 2009.	None
Challenging the election of the appellant herein, a voter of the said constituency, filed an election petition No.20 of 2009 in the Delhi High Court.	Issue
The challenge is on the ground of commission of corrupt practices falling under section 123(1),(2),(5),(6),(7) read with section 127(a) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Issue
The election petitioner chose to implead only the Returning Officer of the No.4 New Delhi Parliamentary Constituency and the appellant herein as respondents to the election petition.	None
The appellant herein filed Interlocutory Application No. 13851 of 2009 invoking Order VII Rule 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (hereinafter referred to as the CPC) praying that the election petition be dismissed in compliance with the mandate contained in section 86 of the Act, which stipulates the High Court shall dismiss an election petition which does not comply with the provisions of section 81 or section 82 or section 117.	Facts
The said I.A., was dismissed by an order dated 30052011.	None
Hence, the Appeal.	None
The substance of the objections raised by the appellant herein in the abovementioned interlocutory application is that the election petition filed by the 2nd respondent herein is liable to be dismissed on three counts Firstly, on the ground of noncompliance with Section 81(3) Secondly, that the election petition does not reveal a complete cause of action as it does not contain all the material facts necessary to constitute to be the cause of action and Thirdly, that one Vijay Goel who was also a candidate in the said election is also a necessary party as per the provisions of section 82 of the Act but not impleaded as the respondent.	None
At the outset I must mention that though the 2nd of the abovementioned objections was pleaded vaguely in the abovementioned interlocutory application, it does not appear to have been pressed before the High Court and certainly not argued before us.	None
So I shall confine our scrutiny to the correctness of the judgment in appeal so far as the objections Nos.1 and 3 of the appellant are concerned.	None
The High Court summarised the contours of the 1st objection at para 3 of the Judgment as follows Not all pages and documents furnished to the second respondent, along with copies of the petition, contained signatures of the petitionerii) Many portions of the documents filed with the petition were missingiii) Copies of several pages of annexures (to the petition) furnished to the second respondent were dim or illegibleiv)	None
The election petition was not properly verifiedv)	None
The verification clause in the copy furnished to the second respondent did not contain signatures of the petitioner.	None
The relevant portion of the pleadings in this regard are to be found at paras 4 5 of the Interlocutory Application as follows That the petitioner has filed the election petition in contravention of various provisions of law and the main petition placed before this Honble Court for trial is not completely signed and verified on each and every page of the petition and attested by the petitioner as required by law.	None
That there are number of pages of the petition and documents annexed with the petition which are either not at all signed by the petitioner and even none of the document annexure has been verified under the signature of the petitioner as required by law.	None
The copy of the petition as supplied to the respondent No.2 along with Annexures is annexed herewith as AnnexureA. On scrutiny of the above referred copy of the petition and inspection of the court record, the applicant Respondent No.2 has found the following deficiencies which are fatal to the petition.	None
None of the pages except the last two pages of the petition i.e. Page no.36 37 are signed by the petitioner.	None
ii) Affidavit in support is not as per Delhi High Court Rules and verification of the affidavit is not signed by the petitioner.	None
iii) Para2 of the affidavit at page No.38, is not legible and does not contain the averments similar to the affidavit filed on record.	None
iv) Annexures from page No.40 to Page No.79 are neither signed nor verified by the petitioner as required by law.	None
Page No. 80 to 81 are just illegible initialled by some person but those pages are also not verified.	None
vi) Page No. 82 to 98. are not properly paginated, nor signed verified or even initialled by the petitioner.	None
vii) Page No.99 to 102 are not signed, initialled or verified by the petitioner as per law.	None
viii)	None
Page No. 103 to 113, are not signed, initialled or verified by the petitioner as per law.	None
ix) Page No. 114 to 117, are not signed, initialled or verified by the petitioner as per law.	None
Page No. 118 to 120, is not signed, initialled or verified by the petitioner as per law, and even not the same as filed.	None
xi) Page No. 121 to 133, completely illegal.	None
xii) Page no. 134	None
Blurred, not get printed by the Respondent No.2 not signed or verified as per the law.	None
xiii)	None
Page No. 135 illegible and not same as per the petition on board.	None
xiv)	None
Page No. 138 to 139 are illegible, and not same as per the petition on board.	None
xv)	None
Page No. 144 to 145, page No. 150 to 151, page No. 152 to 280 are illegible, and not same as per the petition on board.	None
xvi)	None
Page Nos. 281 to 283 are not the same as filed along with main period, not signed or verified by the Petition as per law.	None
xvii)	None
Page No. 284 to 287 are illegible, just initialled by some person as true copy but not the same as filed by petitioner with main petition.	None
xviii)	None
Page No. 288 to 296 the pagination in the original petition is different as having various page members as given on typed copies with suffix A, neither the typed copies supplied nor the pagination is corrected on copy supplied.	None
It is humbly submitted that the Registry of the Court has also given chance to the petitioner to rectify the mistakes remove objections which could not have been given, as the election petitioner has no right to amend modify the petition or its annexures after filing the same, as the annexures are to be read with petition as are treated as integral part of the same.	None
It is not clear from the above whether the various deficiencies pointed out by the petitioner pertain to the original copy of the election petition filed in the High Court or the copy served on the appellant herein.	None
The emphasised portions (emphasis is ours) of the above extracts demonstrate the same.	None
Legally there is a distinction between failure to sign and verify the original copy of the election petition filed in the Court and failure to attest the copy served on the respondent to be a true copy of the election petition.	None
While the latter failure falls within the scope of Section 81(3), the earlier failure falls under subSection (1)(c) and subSection(2) of Section 83.	None
While the failure to comply with the requirements of Section 81 obligates the High Court to dismiss the election petition, the failure to comply with the requirements of Section 83 is not expressly declared to be fatal to the election petition.	None
The said distinction is explained by this Court in Manohar Joshi v. Nitin Bhaurao Patil and another (1996) 1 SCC 169 paras 20 and 21 (Section 86 empowers the High Court to dismiss an election petition at the threshold if it does not comply with the provisions of Section 81 or Section 82 or Section 117 of the Act, all of which are patent defects evident on a bare examination of the election petition as presented.	None
Sub section (1) of Section 81 requires the checking of limitation with reference to the admitted facts and sub section (3) thereof requires only a comparison of the copy accompanying the election petition with the election petition itself, as presented.	None
Section 82 requires verification of the required parties to the petition with reference to the relief claimed in the election petition.	None
Section 117 requires verification of the deposit of security in the High Court in accordance with rules of the High Court.	None
Thus, the compliance of Section 81, 82 and 117 is to be seen with reference to the evident facts found in the election petition and the documents filed along with it at the time of its presentation.	None
This is a ministerial act.	None
There is no scope for any further inquiry for the purpose of Section 86 to ascertain the deficiency, if any, in the election petition found with reference to the requirements of Section 83 of the R.P. Act which is a judicial function.	None
For this reason, the noncompliance of Section 83, is not specified as a ground for dismissal of the election petition under Section 86.	None
Acceptance of the argument of Shri Jethmalani would amount to reading into Section 86 an additional ground for dismissal of the election petition under Section 86 for non compliance of Section 83.	None
There is no occasion to do so, particularly when Section 86 being in the nature of a penal provision, has to be construed strictly confined to its plain language.).	None
However, the High Court categorised the various objections raised in para 5 of the I.A. (extracted earlier), as falling under five heads, which are already extracted (at para 7) earlier by us.	None
Though it appears that while the objections falling under category 1, 3 and 5 pertain to the defects in the copy of the election petition served to the appellant herein, it is not very clear whether the objections falling under categories 2 and 4, referred to above, pertain to the election petition as presented to the High Court or copy thereof served to the appellant herein.	None
Further, of the eighteen objections pointed out under para 5 of the I.A. (extracted above), which one of the said objections falls under which one of the abovementioned five categories, is not identified by the High Court.	None
Apart from that there is no finding in the Judgment under appeal whether any one of the abovementioned eighteen objections is factually correct or not.	None
I regret to record that the High Court simply extracted paragraphs from the Judgments of this Court in Murarka Radhey Shyam Ram Kumar v. Roop Singh Rathore others 1964 (3) S.C.R.573, Satya Narain v. Dhuja Ram others (1974) 4 S.C.C 237, Rajendra Singh v. Smt.	None
Usha Rani others (1984) 3 S.C.C. 339 and Chandrakanth Uttam Chodankar v. Dayanand Rayu Mandrakar others (2005) 2 S.C.C. 188 and disposed of the I.A. holding In view of the above and having regard to the decision in Chandrakant Uttam Chodankar (supra), as well as Murarka Radhey Shyam Ram Kumar (supra), this Court is of the opinion that in the present instance, the election petitioner had signed on the copies and, therefore, complied with the standard prescribed under Section 81(3).	None
Similarly, the fact that the Registrar of this Court had initially notified some deficiencies which were cured, after which the matter was placed before the Court, which took cognizance of the petition, would mean that the election petitioner was absolved of any fault.	None
There is no doubt that the election petition, as originally presented, was within the time prescribed by law.	None
Moreover, this Court cannot, enquire into the question as to whether and if so, to what extent, the copies furnished to the second respondent were not complaint with Section 81(3) of the Act, that would amount to a mini trial a procedure unknown to the Act and in fact contrary to its objective.	None
While public interest lies in ensuring that suits or causes which are plainly barred by law, ought to be summarily rejected, equally the court should not be over zealous in the enforcement of provisions which are procedural, though aimed at expeditious trial, require substantial compliance.	None
The larger Bench ruling in Murarka points to this, and the court is inclined to follow the adage that procedure is only a handmaiden, and not mistress of justice.	None
In the second part of the eighteenth objection (in para 5 of the I.A.), the appellant herein pleaded vaguely that the Registry of the High Court gave an opportunity to the petitioner to rectify the mistakes remove objections, which could not have been given.	None
The High Court by the impugned Judgment records that the fact that the Registrar of this Court had initially notified some deficiencies which were cured, after which the matter was placed before the Court, which took cognizance of the petition, would mean that the election petitioner was absolved of any fault.	None
Both, the pleading as well as the finding of the High Court, are as vague as the vagueness could be.	None
Exposition of law without first identifying the relevant facts in issue, in my opinion, does not promote the cause of justice.	None
The Appeal, insofar as the first issue identified by us in para 5 of the Judgment, is required to be allowed and remanded to the High Court for an appropriate consideration of the objections raised by the appellant herein, in accordance with law.	None
I shall now deal with the third issue argued before us.	None
Though elaborate submissions were made before us on this issue by the learned senior counsel appearing on either side, the relevant pleading in the petition is very sketchy and is to be found in para 14 of the Interlocutory Application which reads as follows That in annexures 1 of the petition, the petitioner has annexed a complaint made by the Youth for Equality to the Honble Chief Election Commissioner of India by alleging various irregularities by BJP Congress Candidates namely Sh.	None
Vijay Goel Sh.	None
Ajay Maken in New Delhi Parliamentary constituency and in para B sub para (i) at page 15 of the petition a mention of the said complaint is made.	None
The present election petition is apparently a proxy litigation by presenting the present election petition at the instance of the said BJP candidate whose other complaints etc. have been annexed along with the petition.	None
As per the provisions of section 82 of the Representation of People Act 1951 a petitioner shall join as respondents to his petition.	None
(b) any other candidate against whom allegations of any corrupt practice are made in the petition.	None
It is not out of place to mention here that in the alleged complaint annexed as Annexure I similar allegations are made against Sh.	None
Vijay Goel, a candidate at the said election which is under challenge and he is a necessary party as per the provisions of Section 82 of the Act.	None
A reading of the above paragraphs leaves us with the impression that the emphasis of the paragraphs is on the belief of the appellant that the election petition is a proxy litigation undertaken by the election petitioner on behalf of the unsuccessful BJP candidate.	Reasoning
It is only in the last subparagraph extracted above, a cryptic legal objection is raised that in view of the fact that AnnexureI of the election petition not only contains allegations of commission of corrupt practice by the appellant herein, but also by Vijay Goel (BJP candidate).	Reasoning
In view of the requirement of Section 82(b) of the Act, Vijay Goel must also have been made a respondent to the election petition and failure to so implead is fatal to the election petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
No doubt, Section 82(b) on a plain reading or on the principle of literal construction, seems to require that all the candidates against whom allegations of commission of corrupt practice are MADE IN THE PETITION must be made parties respondents to the election petition.	None
The ISSUE in the case is whether such allegations are MADE against Vijay Goel in the election petition and if MADE, is Vijay Goel required to be made a respondent to the election petition.	Issue
It is pointed out by this Court in Reserve Bank of India v. Peerless General Finance and Investment Company Limited and others (1987) 1 SCC 424 Interpretation must depend on the text and the context Neither can be ignored.	None
Both are important.	None
That interpretation is best which makes the textual interpretation match the contextual.	None
A statute is best interpreted when we know why it was enacted.	None
Adopting the principle of literal construction of the Statute alone, in all circumstances without examining the context and scheme of the Statute, may not subserve the purpose of the Statute.	None
In the words of Justice Iyer, such an approach would be   to see the skin and miss the soul.	None
Whereas, The judicial key to construction is the composite perception of the deha and the dehi of the provision (Chairman, Board of Mining Examination and Chief Inspector of Mines v. Ramjee AIR 1977 SC 965 ).	None
This Court in Tirath Singh v. Bachittar Singh and others (AIR 1955 SC 830 ) dealing with a question of interpretation of Section 99 of the Act, declined to follow the rule of literal construction of the Statute on the ground that it would lead to absurdity, presumably, not intended by the Statute having regard to the scheme and the purpose of the Act.	None
The election petitioner made the allegations of commission of various corrupt practices falling under various subsections of Section 123 of the Act, by either the appellant herein or the election agent of the appellant herein.	None
The election petition particularly contains extensive details of the corrupt practice falling under Section 123(6) r w Section 77 of the Act, running to 18 typed pages.	None
The material facts and particulars of the abovementioned corrupt practice are set out in great detail.	None
It is in the process of the abovementioned narration, the election petitioner made a reference to two annexures viz., AnnexureH and AnnexureI. That portion of the election petition reads as follows The petitioner submits that in this regard complaint was filed before the Returning Officer on 5th May, 2009 by Shri Mantu, Independent candidate, New Delhi Parliamentary Constituency.	None
The Complaint specifically states that the respondent No.2 has incurred a huge expenditure on hoardings and had exceeded the prescribed expenditure limit of Rs.25 lakhs.	None
The copy of the complaint dated 5th May, 2009 is marked and annexed herewith as ANNEXUREH.	None
Youth for equality had also filed similar complaint with the Election Commissioner of India to take action that all hoarding put up at private places be pulled down and add the market cost on the these site be added to the expenditure account of the candidate.	None
The copy of the complaint to the Election Commissioner of India is marked and annexed herewith as ANNEXUREI.	None
It is the said AnnexureI, which makes a reference to the name of Vijay Goel.	None
I may make it clear that except a mention in the said annexure, the name of Vijay Goel is not mentioned anywhere in the body of the election petition.	None
It can be seen from the above extracted pleading of the election petitioner that he referred to the abovementioned AnnexureI in the context of the commission of a corrupt practice falling under Section 123(7) r w Section 77 of the Act by the appellant herein.	None
The substance of the allegation, where a reference to AnnexureI is made, is that the complaint, such as the one made by the election petitioner, had also been made by another body called Youth for equality to the Election Commission of India and a copy of the complaint, allegedly, made by the said Youth for equality is filed as AnnexureI to the election petition, obviously, for the purpose of deriving support for the allegation made by the election petitioner.	None
Learned senior counsel Shri K. Parasaran appearing for the appellant submitted that in view of the decisions of this Court in Sahodrabai Rai v. Ram Singh Aharwar, (1968) 3	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 13 , M. Karunanidhi v. H.V.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hande, (1983) 2 SCC 473 and Mulayam Singh Yadav v. Dharam Pal Yadav, (2001) 7 SCC 98 , if an election petition contains annexures or schedules attached to it, whose content is not elaborately described in the body of the election petition, but only referred to as containing the factual basis for seeking declaration of nullity of the election of the returned candidate, such annexures or schedules become an integral part of the election petition and, therefore, all the allegations contained in such schedules or annexures become allegations in the election petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
If such allegations pertain to commission of any corrupt practice by any one of the candidates at the election other than the returned candidate, such other candidates are also required to be made partiesrespondents to the election petition in view of the law laid down by this Court in Har Swarup another v. Brij Bhushan Saran others 1967 (1) SCR 342 , Mohan Rai v. Surendra Kumar Taparia others 1969 (1) SCR 630 , Kashi Nath v. Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Kudisa Begum and others (1970) 3 SCC 554 and Gadnis Bhawani Shankar V v. Faleiro Eduardo Martinho (2000) 7 SCC 472 .23.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is argued by Shri Parasaran that since the election petitioner referred to Annexure I in the body of the election petition without fully describing the content of the same, Annexure I becomes an integral part of the election petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since in the said annexure allegations of commission of corrupt practice, similar to the one alleged against the appellant herein, are made against Vijay Goel, the said Vijay Goel also ought to have been impleaded as partyrespondent to the election petition in view of the mandate contained in Section 82(b) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since, Vijay Goel is not made a partyrespondent to the election petition, there is a failure to comply with the requirements of Section 82, which is declared to be fatal to the election petition under Section 86 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, learned senior counsel Shri Ranjit Kumar appearing for the respondentelection petitioner argued that the proposition of law settled by this Court that an annexure or schedule to the election petition becomes an integral part of the election petition only in certain circumstances, but it is also recognised by this Court that in certain other circumstances annexures are only evidence of the allegation contained in the election petition, but not an integral part of the pleading of the election petition.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Ranjit Kumar submitted that the purpose of the election petition with reference to the annexureI is only to derive support to his allegation of the commission of corrupt practice by the appellant herein by demonstrating that such allegation against the appellant is not only made by the election petitioner but also by others during the course of the election.	Arguments of Respondent
It is neither the intention of the election petitioner to make any allegation of corrupt practice nor seek any relief against Vijay Goel.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the election petitioner is not legally obliged to implead Vijay Goel as a partyrespondent to the election petition.	Arguments of Respondent
If the complaint made by the Youth for equality to the Election Commission of India contains allegations of commission of corrupt practice not only by the appellant herein, but also by some other candidate at the election, can such allegations against the candidate other than the appellant herein be read as allegations made in the election petition by the extension of fiction judicially created on the interpretation of Section 81(3) of the Act, is the question to be examined.	None
To decide the issue, it is necessary to examine (1) who can file an election petition (2) what are the grounds that can be taken (3) what is the relief that can be claimed and granted (4) who are required to be made parties and (5) what is the procedure to be followed in presenting an election petition and also the scheme of the Act insofar as it is relevant apart from the ratio of the abovereferred decisions of this Court.	None
Article 329 (Bar to interference by courts in electoral matters.  	None
Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution (a) the validity of any law relating to the delimitation of constituencies or the allotment of seats to such constituencies, made or purporting to be made under Article 327 or Article 328, shall not be called in question in any court (b) no election to either House of Parliament or to the House or either House of the Legislature of a State shall be called in question except by an election petition presented to such authority and in such manner as may be provided for by or under any law made by the appropriate Legislature.)	None
of the Constitution prohibits the calling in question any election to either the House of the Parliament or the Legislature of a State except by an election petition in such manner as may be provided for by or under any law by the appropriate legislature.	None
The Representation of the People Act, 1951 is such a law made by the Parliament.	None
It deals with the method and manner of conduct of the elections including the resolution of disputes regarding the elections.	None
This court has repeatedly held that an election petition is not a common law proceeding, but a creature of the statute.	None
Part VI of the Act deals with disputes regarding elections.	None
Section 80 stipulates that no election shall be called in question except by an election petition presented in accordance with the provisions of this part.	None
Section 80A invests the power to try election petitions in the High Court.	None
Section 79(e) defines the High Court to mean, the High Court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the disputed election took place.	None
Section 81 deals with the presentation of election petitions Presentation of petitions.(1)	None
An election petition calling in question any election may be presented on one or more of the grounds specified in subsection (1) of section 100 and section 101 to the High Court by any candidate at such election or any elector within fortyfive days from, but not earlier than the date of election of the returned candidate or if there are more than one returned candidate at the election and dates of their election are different, the later of those two dates.	None
Explanation.	None
In this subsection, elector means a person who was entitled to vote at the election to which the election petition relates, whether he has voted at such election or not.	None
(2) (Omitted by Act 47 of 1966, sec.39 (w.e.f. 14.12.1966)	None
Every election petition shall be accompanied by as many copies thereof as there are respondents mentioned in the petition and every such copy shall be attested by the petitioner under his own signature to be a true copy of the petition.	None
It stipulates The grounds on which an election can be challenged The person who are entitled to challenge any election The period of limitation within which the election petition is to be presented that (iv) Every election petition shall be accompanied by a many copies thereof as there are respondents to the petition and Any such copy shall be attested by the election petitioner to be a true copy of the petition.	None
Section 82 prescribes as to who shall be joined as the respondents to an election petition, the contents of which shall be examined later.	None
Section 83 (Section 83 Contents of petition.	None
(1) An election petition (a) shall contain a concise statement of the material facts on which the petitioner relies (b) shall set forth full particulars of any corrupt practice that the petitioner alleges, including as full a statement as possible of the names of the parties alleged to have committed such corrupt practice and the date and place of the commission of each such practice and (c) shall be signed by the petitioner and verified in the manner laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) for the verification of pleadings Provided that where the petitioner alleges any corrupt practice, the petition shall also be accompanied by an affidavit in the prescribed form in support of the allegation of such corrupt practice and the particulars thereof.	None
Any schedule or annexure to the petition shall also be signed by the petitioner and verified in the same manner as the petition.)	None
stipulates that (a) an election petition shall contain a concise statement of material facts on which the petitioner relies (b) that the election petition shall set forth full particulars of any corrupt practices, which the petitioner alleges in the election petition and (c) the method and manner of verification of election petition.	None
It further stipulates that wherever an allegation of corrupt practice is made in an election petition, the election petition shall be accompanied by an affidavit in the prescribed form and also every annexure or schedule to the petition be signed and verified in the same manner as the petition.	None
33.	None
Section 84 stipulates the reliefs that can be sought in an election petition.	None
It reads Relief that may be claimed by the petitioner A petitioner may, in addition to claiming a declaration that the election of all or any of the returned candidates is void, claim a further declaration that he himself or any other candidate has been duly elected.	None
It can be seen from the above that in an election petition the petitioner can claim declaration that (1) the election of a returned candidate is void and (2) a further declaration that either the petitioner himself or any other candidate has been duly elected.	None
We have already noticed that section 81 stipulates that an election can be challenged only on one or more of the grounds specified under sections 100 Section 100  Grounds for declaring election to be void Subject to the provisions of subsection (2) if the High court is of opinion (a) that on the date of his election a returned candidate was not qualified, or was disqualified, to be chosen to fill the seat under the Constitution or this Act or the Government of Union Territories Act, 1963 (20 of 1963) or (b) that any corrupt practice has been committed by a returned candidate or his election agent or by any other person with the consent of returned candidate or his election agent or (c) that any nomination has been improperly rejected or (d) that the result of the election, in so far as it concerns a returned candidate, has been materially affected by the improper acceptance or any nomination, or by any corrupt practice committed in the interests of the returned candidate by an agent other than his election agent, or by the improper reception, refusal or rejection of any vote or the reception of any vote which is void, or by any noncompliance with the provisions of the Constitution or of this Act or of any rules or orders made under this Act, the High Court shall declare the election of the returned candidate to be void.	None
and 101Section 101  Grounds for which a candidate other than the returned candidate may be declared to have been elected If any person who has lodged a petition has, in addition to calling in question the election of the returned candidate, claimed a declaration that he himself or any other candidate has been duly elected and the High Court is of opinion (a) that in fact the petitioner or such other candidate received a majority of the valid votes or (b) that but for the votes obtained by the returned candidate by corrupt practices the petitioner or such other candidate would have obtained a majority of the valid voles, the High Court shall, after declaring the election of the returned candidate to be void declare the petitioner or such other candidate, as the case may be, to have been duly elected.	None
of the Act.	None
Section 100 stipulates various grounds on which election of a returned candidate can be declared to be void, while Section 101 stipulates circumstances under which a further declaration contemplated under Section 84, can be given by the High Court (after declaring the election of a returned candidate to be void) that some candidate other than the returned candidate is duly elected in the said election.	None
What should be the prayer in an election petition is a matter of the petitioners choice.	None
It is for the petitioner to decide whether he would be satisfied with a declaration of nullity of the election of the returned candidate or a further declaration such as one contemplated under section 101 is to be sought.	None
However, as to who should be made parties respondents to an election petition is stipulated under section 82 and not left to the choice of an election petitioner.	None
Section 82 reads thus Parties to the petition.	None
A petitioner shall join as respondents to his petition (a) where the petitioner, in addition to claiming declaration that the election of all or any of the returned candidates is void, claims a further declaration that he himself or any other candidate has been duly election, all the contesting candidates other than the petitioner, and where no such further declaration is claimed, all the returned candidates and (b) any other candidate against whom allegations of any corrupt practice are made in the petition.	None
It can be seen from section 82 as to who should be made parties to an election petition depends upon two factors.	None
The first factor is the nature of the relief sought by the petitioner.	None
Where a further declaration as contemplated under section 101 is sought, the petitioner is bound to make all the contesting candidates parties respondents to the election petition.	Reasoning
Where no such declaration is sought, the section stipulates that it is enough to make all the returned candidates at the election, parties to the election petition.	None
The employment of the expression all the returned candidates is obviously meant to cover disputes relating to elections to Rajya Sabha or Legislative Councils where more than one candidate is declared elected at the same election.39.	None
The second factor is the ground on which declaration of nullity of the election of the returned candidate is sought.	Reasoning
It must be remembered that the election of any returned candidate can be questioned on various grounds specified under section 100(1) of the Act, such as, lack of qualification or disqualification on the part of the candidate, the commission of corrupt practices by the returned candidate or his election agent etc. or the improper rejection of the nomination of any candidate at the election etc.40.	Reasoning
The following propositions emerge from the above analysis.	Reasoning
An election to the Parliament or the State Legislature can be called in question only in accordance with the provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
Such a question can be raised only before the High Court.	Reasoning
The High Court, in an election dispute, can declare the election of the returned candidate to be void.	Reasoning
It may also give a further declaration in an appropriate case and subject to compliance with the procedural requirements that either the election petitioner or any other candidate at the questioned election, has been duly elected.	Reasoning
The first of the abovementioned declarations can be made only on one or some of the various grounds enumerated under Section 100 of the Act.41.	Reasoning
In the present case, the relief sought by the election petitioner is only the declaration of nullity of the election of the appellant herein on the ground of commission of corrupt practices, but a further declaration contemplated under Section 84 read with Section 101 of the Act is not sought.	Reasoning
Therefore, I examine the relevant provisions.	Reasoning
Section 100 prescribes that if the High Court is of the opinion that any corrupt practice has been committed by a returned candidate or his election agent or by any other person with the consent of either the returned candidate or his election agent, the High Court shall declare the election of the returned candidate to be void.	Reasoning
Section 100.	None
Grounds for declaring election to be void (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2) if the High Court is of opinion (a) (b) that any corrupt practice has been committed by a returned candidate or his election agent or by any other person with the consent of a returned candidate or his election agent The said section also stipulates that if it is established before the High Court that a corrupt practice has been committed in the interest of the returned candidate by an agent other than his election agent, then, the High Court is also required to form an opinion that the result of the election, insofar as it concerns returned candidate, has been materially effected, before declaring the election of the returned candidate void.	None
Section 100.	None
(d) that the result of the election, in so far as it concerns a returned candidate, has been materially affected (i) by any corrupt practice committed in the interests of the returned candidate by an agent other than his election agent, Emphasis supplied The clause by an agent other than his election agent occurring in Section 100(1)(d)(ii), must be understood in the light of Section 99 (2), which reads as follows In this section and in section 100, the expression agent has the same meaning as in Section 123.	None
And Section 123(8) explanation, which reads as follows In this section the expression agent includes an election agent, a polling agent and any person who is held to have acted as an agent in connection with the election with the consent of the candidate The Act enables the appointment, by every contesting candidate of an election agent, polling agents and counting agents (Sections 40, 46 and 47 (40.	None
Election agents.	None
A candidate at an election may appoint in the prescribed manner any one person other than himself to be his election agent and when any such appointment is made, notice of the appointment shall be given in the prescribed manner to the returning officer.	None
Appointment of polling agents.	None
A contesting candidate or his election agent may appoint in the prescribed manner such number of agents and relief agents as may be prescribed to act as polling agents of such candidate at each polling station provided under section 25 or at the place fixed under subsection (1) of section 29 for the poll.	None
Appointment of counter agents.	None
A contesting candidate or his election may appoint in the prescribed manner one or more persons, but not exceeding such number as may be prescribed, to the present as his counting agent or agents at the counting of votes, and when any such appointment is made notice of the appointment shall be given in the prescribed manner to the returning officer.)	None
respectively).	None
If the commission of a corrupt practice by a candidate other than the returned candidate or his election agent, etc., indicated above, is wholly immaterial for determining the validity of the election of the returned candidate, I am at a loss to understand as to why would any election petitioner MAKE allegations of the commission of corrupt practices by candidates other than the returned candidate, particularly in an election petition, where further relief contemplated under Section 84 is not sought for, such as the one on hand.	None
Section 83(1)(b) requires that an election petition shall set forth as full a statement as possible of the names of the parties alleged to have committed such corrupt practice.	Reasoning
In my opinion the employment of the expression Parties in the abovementioned clause is to compendiously cover the returned candidate, his election agent or any other person committing a corrupt practice with the consent of either the returned candidate or his election agent or any other agent committing a corrupt practice falling within the scope of Section 100(d)(ii).	None
Section 98 stipulates that at the conclusion of the trial of an election petition, the High Court is obliged to make an order either dismissing the election petition or declaring the election of a returned candidate void apart from giving a declaration that another candidate to have been duly elected in an appropriate case, where such a relief is sought successfully.	None
Section 99 of the Act stipulates that the High Court is also obliged to make an order in an election petition where a charge of corrupt practice is made (1) whether such a charge is proved or not (2) the nature of the corrupt practice, i.e., under which one of the Sub sections of Section 123 of the Act the corrupt practice falls and (3) the names of all persons, who are proved at the trial to have been guilty of any corrupt practice.	None
The question of proof of the commission of a corrupt practice arises only if there is an appropriate pleading in that regard in the election petition.	None
I have already noticed that Section 83 stipulates that an election petition, which contains allegations of corrupt practice, must contain full particulars of the names of the parties alleged to have committed a corrupt practice.	Reasoning
I am of the opinion that the Legislature chose to use the expression PARTIES for the reason that there are various categories of persons, who are capable of committing a corrupt practice in connection with the election of a returned candidate  (i) the returned candidate or (ii) his election agent, or (iii) any other person with the consent of either the returned candidate or his election agent or (iv) any other agent, as explained earlier.	Reasoning
The difference in the language of Section 82 and 83(1)(b), in my opinion, is significant.	Reasoning
While Section 82 speaks of candidates, Section 83(1)(b) speaks of parties.	Reasoning
I shall now examine the question whether the election petitioner MADE allegations against Vijay Goel in the ELECTION PETITION.	None
To examine the correctness of the submission made by Sri Parasaran in this regard, I must examine the 3 Judgments relied upon by Sri Parasaran.	None
The facts of Sahodrabai case are as follows Ram Singh was declared elected to the Lok Sabha from Sagar constituency of Madhya Pradesh.	None
His election was questioned by Sahodrabai on various grounds including the commission of a corrupt practice falling under Section 123(3) of the Act.	None
According to Sahodrabai, the content of a pamphlet (in Hindi)  a copy of which is annexed to the election petition, allegedly circulated by the returned candidate, constitutes the abovementioned corrupt practice.	None
The content of the said pamphlet was translated into English and incorporated in the election petition itself.	None
A preliminary objection was raised by Ram Singh that the election petition should be dismissed on the ground of contravention of Section 81(3) of the Act because it was alleged by Ram Singh that a copy of the election petition served on him was not accompanied by a copy of the pamphlet referred to above.	None
The High Court found, as a matter of fact, that a copy of the election petition served on Ram Singh was not accompanied by a copy of the pamphlet.	None
Dealing with the question whether such a copy served on Ram Singh was a true copy within the meaning of Section 81(3) of the Act, this Court held as follows we would say that since the election petition itself reproduced the whole of the pamphlet in a translation in English, it could be said that the averments with regard to the pamphlet were themselves a part of the petition and therefore the pamphlet was served upon the respondents although in a translation and not in a original.	None
Even if this be not the case, we are quite clear that subs.	None
(2)of s.83 has reference not to a document which is produced as evidence of the averments of the election petition but to averments of the election petition which are put, not in the election petition but in the accompanying schedules or annexures.	None
It was further held by this Court But what we have said here does not apply to documents which are merely evidence in the case but which for reasons of clarity and to lend force tot eh petition are not kept back but produced or filed with the election petitions.	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
It would be stretching the words of subs.	None
(2) of s. 83 too far to think that every document produced as evidence in the election petition becomes a part of the election petition proper.	None
From the above, it can be seen that two propositions of law are settled by this Court.	Reasoning
Firstly, when an election petition is accompanied by annexures, whose content is completely described in the election petition, failure to serve a copy of such an annexure along with the copy of the election petition on a respondent to the election petition does not render the copy served on the respondent anything other than a true copy of the election petition.	Reasoning
Secondly, even in a case where the content of the annexure is not fully described in the election petition, the nonsupply of such annexure along with the copy of the election petition to the respondent does not violate the mandate of Section 81(3) in those cases where annexure is only sought to be used as evidence of some allegation contained in the election petition.	Reasoning
In M. Karunanidhi v. Dr. H.V.	None
Hande Ors., (1983) 2 SCC 473 , the facts are as follows M. Karunanidhi was declared elected to the Legislative Assembly of Tamil Nadu from Anna Nagar Assembly Constituency.	None
Hande filed an election petition challenging the election of Karunanidhi on various grounds.	None
One of them was that Karunanidhi incurred expenditure in connection with the election in excess of the expenditure permitted under Section 77 of the Act.	None
Such contravention by itself is declared to be a corrupt practice under Section 123(6) of the Act.	None
According to Dr. Hande, such excessive expenditure was incurred on account of the erection of about 50 fancy banners throughout the constituency at a cost of Rs.50,000/.	None
The photograph of one such banner was filed as annexure along with the petition.	None
Admittedly, a copy of the election petition served on Karunanidhi was not accompanied by a copy of the said photograph.	None
This Court opined that the photograph was not a mere evidence of the allegations contained in the election petition of Dr. Hande and it is an integral part of the election petition as without a copy of the photograph, the election petition would be incomplete.	None
It is only a case where the principle laid down in Sahodrabai case was applied to the facts.	None
In Mulayam Singh case, Mulayam Singh was declared elected to the Lok Sabha from Sambhal Parliamentary Constituency.	None
Dharam Pal Yadav, one of the other candidates, filed an election petition on various grounds.	None
One of the grounds is commission of the corrupt practice of booth capturing falling under Section 123(8) of the Act.	None
There were 15 respondents to the election petition and 25 schedules.	None
Schedule 14 pertains to the allegation of corrupt practice.	None
In the election petition, it was averred that there was booth capturing, arson, violence in large scale which was captured in videograph under the orders of the Election Commission.	None
A copy of the said videograph was averred to had been attached to the election petition as Schedule 14.	None
On the facts, this Court recorded at para 12 and 13 as follows 12.	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
As to boothcapturing, there are particulars contained in the other schedules but even in that regard the later paragraphs of the election petition make reference to Schedule 14 so that even in regard to boothcapturing the particulars shown in the video cassette mentioned and verified in Schedule 14 are relied upon.	None
So far as the allegations of violence and arson are concerned, there are no particulars in the election petition absent the video cassette mentioned and verified in Schedule 14.	None
We are, therefore, satisfied that the video cassette mentioned and verified in Schedule 14 is an integral part of the election petition and that it should have been filed in court along with copies thereof for service upon the respondents to the election petition.	None
Whereas 15 copies thereof were filed for service upon the respondents, the video cassette itself was not filed.	None
The election petition as filed was, therefore, not complete.	None
Emphasis supplied and held that in the absence of any particulars in the body of the election petition, the videograph becomes an integral part of the election petition and failure to attach a copy to the election petition is fatal to the election petition.	None
Once again, a case where the principle laid down in Sahodrabai case is applied to the facts.	None
In Sahodrabai case, the specific allegation in the election petition was that circulation of the annexure in issue by the returned candidate tantamounted to the commission of corrupt practice described in Section 123(3) of the Act, because of its content.	None
I must hasten to add whether the content of the said annexure, would fall within the definition of corrupt practice contained under Section 123(3) was not examined by this Court as it was not called upon.	None
This Court assumed the correctness of the allegation for the limited purpose of examining the issue before it.	None
Even in such a case, this Court held since the content, in its entirety, of the annexure was fully described in the body of the election petition, nonsupply of such an annexure is not fatal  on the ground, it is violative of Section 81(3) of the Act.	None
The purpose of the stipulation under Section 81(3) is to put the returned candidate on notice of the various allegations made against him in order to enable him to defend himself effectively in the election petition a stipulation flowing from the requirement of one of the basic postulates of the principles of natural justice.	None
Once the content of the annexure, the whole of which pertains to the commission of the corrupt practice alleged in the election petition, is described in the body of the election petition with sufficient clarity, the returned candidate cannot complain that he was denied a reasonable opportunity of defending himself or that he was taken by surprise at the trial.	None
Therefore, nonsupply of the annexure in such cases was held to be immaterial and the copy of the election petition supplied to the returned candidate sans the annexure would still be a true copy within the meaning of the expression under Section 81(3).	None
It is in this context the Court observed that the annexure became part of the election petition.56.	None
In my opinion, none of the abovementioned three cases laid down as an absolute principle that an annexure to an election petition, whose content is not described in the election petition, would become the integral part of the election petition for all the purposes.	Reasoning
It is only for a limited purpose of deciding the question whether a copy of the election petition, served on the respondent in the election petition, is a true copy of the original filed into the Court within the meaning of Section 81(3) of the Act, annexures are treated as integral part of the election petition, that too, only in the situation, where the content of the annexure is not fully described in the body of the main petition.	Reasoning
57.	Reasoning
Now, I shall examine the question whether the allegations of commission of corrupt practice are MADE in the election petition within the meaning of the expression under Section 82(b).58.	Reasoning
Obviously the allegations must be MADE by the election petitioner.	Reasoning
In a case like the one on hand where the election petitioner does not make any such allegation in the body of the election petition, but such allegations are found in some document annexed to the election petition of which the election petitioner is not the author  can it be said that the allegations are MADE in the petition ?	Reasoning
59.	Reasoning
In my opinion the answer to the question must be in the negative.	Reasoning
Because, firstly, the document annexure is not authored by the election petitioner secondly, in the entire body of the election petition there is no reference to any corrupt practice committed by Vijay Goel.	Reasoning
Making such an allegation against Vijay Goel would in no way help the election petitioner to obtain the relief sought by him in the election petition.	Reasoning
Even at the cost of the repetition I must state that the election petition does not seek a further declaration contemplated under Section 84 of the Act.	Reasoning
As rightly, argued by Shri Ranjit Kumar, the purpose of the annexure is only to derive support to the allegation of the commission of corrupt practice alleged against the appellant only.	Reasoning
Therefore, only that much of the content of the annexure as is relevant to the allegations made in the election petition proper must be considered to have become integral part of the election petition.60.	Reasoning
To stretch the principle laid down in Sahodrabai case, to say, that an annexure becomes an integral part of the election petition for all purposes and, therefore, hold that the allegations made against Vijay Goel in the annexure by somebody other than the election petitioner would become allegations MADE in the election petition, would lead to absurd results that is what exactly sought to be done by the appellant herein.	Reasoning
I reject the submission.61.	Reasoning
In view of my above conclusion, I do not wish to examine the purport and interpretation of Section 82(b).	Reasoning
I must also place it on record that we gave our anxious consideration to the four judgments i.e., Murarka Radhey Shyam Ram Kumar case, Satya Narain case, Rajendra Singh case and Chandrakanth Uttam Chodankar case, which dealt with the interpretation of Section 82(b) and I am of the prima facie opinion that those judgments may require reconsideration in an appropriate case.	Reasoning
Since, the same is not necessary for the present in view of my conclusion recorded above, I refrain from examining the correctness of the said decisions.62.	Reasoning
In the result, I hold that the election petition cannot be dismissed on the ground that Vijay Goel is not made a party.	Decision
But, in so far as the question whether the election petition is required to be dismissed on the ground that the copy served on the appellant is not the true copy of the original within the meaning of Section 81(3), I remit the matter to the High Court for disposal in accordance with law and in the light of this judgment.	Decision
Altamas Kabir, CJI.	None
Having had the privilege of going through the draft judgment of my learned Brother, Jasti Chelameswar, J., I am in agreement with the conclusions arrived at by him as also the directions to remit the matter to the High Court for disposal in accordance with law in the light of the views expressed in the judgment.	None
I, however, wish to add a few words in addition to what has been stated by my learned Brother.	None
In dealing with the provisions of Sections 82 and 83 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, my learned Brother has very dexterously pointed out the differences contained therein.	None
However, the provisions of Sections 82 and 83 of the 1951 Act have to be read harmoniously.	None
While Section 82 relates to who should be made parties in the Election Petition, Section 83 relates to the contents of the Petition.	None
As far as Section 82 is concerned, while Clause (a) provides that when in addition to claiming a declaration that the election of all or any of the returned candidates is void, the Petitioner claims a further declaration that he himself or any other candidate has been duly elected, all the contesting candidates, other than the Petitioner, and where no such further declaration is claimed, all the returned candidates have to be made parties.	None
Clause (b) in addition requires that any other candidate against whom allegations of corrupt practice are made in the Petition, has to be made a party to the Election Petition.	None
As pointed out by my learned Brother, the emphasis is on the use of the expression allegations of any corrupt practice are made in the Petition.	None
In other words, in order for any other candidate to be made a party to the Election Petition, allegations of corrupt practice would have to be made against him in the Election Petition itself.	None
The question with which we are concerned is whether an annexure to the Petition in which allegations of corrupt practice are made against a candidate, without any allegation being made against him in the Election Petition itself, can be said to be an integral part of the Election Petition.	Reasoning
Considering the fact that Section 83(1)(b) requires an Election Petition to contain full particulars of any corrupt practice alleged by the Petitioner, can a document which contains allegations of corrupt practice against a candidate against whom no allegation is made in the Election Petition itself, be deemed to be a part of the Election Petition.	None
In order to apply the decisions of this Court, referred to in my learned Brothers judgment, to the facts of this case, it would be necessary that some allegation of corrupt practice would have to be made in the Election Petition itself against a person against whom allegations of corrupt practice may separately have been made.	None
In my view, in the absence of any such allegation in the Petition, the provisions of clause (b) of Section 82 will not be attracted.	None
Accordingly, while agreeing with my learned Brother that the allegations made against Mr. Vijay Goel, contained in annexure to the Election Petition, can have no bearing on the facts at issue in the Election Petition itself, in my estimation Shri Vijay Goel is not required to be made a party to the Election Petition.	None
As also indicated by my learned Brother, the matter may require further examination in an appropriate case.	None
However, in the facts of this case, the nonimpleadment of Shri Vijay Goel against whom there were no allegations in the Election Petition is not fatal to the Election Petition and the matter is required to be reexamined by the High Court, as indicated by my learned Brother.	None
