Arijit Pasayat, J. Appellants call in question legality of the judgment rendered by a learned Single Judge of the Gujarat High Court upholding their conviction for offence punishable under Section 9B(i) (b) of the Explosive Act 1884 (in short the Act).	None
The Trial Court sentenced each of the appellants to undergo imprisonment for one year and pay a fine of Rs.1,000/ with default stipulation.	None
In a nutshell the background facts are as followsOn 20.4.1988, the appellants came to Surat from Indore and were intercepted by the police at the bus stand.	Facts
They were found to be in possession of 180 detonators.	Facts
A criminal case no.4 of 1990 was registered against the appellantsaccused.	Facts
They were chargesheeted for the offence punishable under Sections 9B(i) (b) of the Act and Section 5 of the Terrorists Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1985 (in short the TADA).	Facts
By judgment and order dated 12.10.1998 of the Trial Court, the accused were acquitted of the offence punishable under Section 5 of the TADA.	Facts
However, they were convicted for the offence punishable under Section 9B(i) (b) of the Act and were sentenced as aforesaid.3.	Facts
In the appeal before the High Court stand of the appellants was that without prior sanction of the Central Government for prosecution the proceedings were illegal.	Facts
It was also submitted that article recovered from the appellants cannot be said to be explosives and, therefore, also the appellants could not have been convicted.	Facts
As there was no independent evidence and only the evidence of the investigation officer was relied upon, the conviction should not have been made.	Facts
Residually it was submitted that the appellants had faced trial for about 10 years and should not have been convicted with punishment of custodial sentence as Section 9B(i) (b) itself provides that fine only can be imposed.	Facts
RespondentStates stand was that no sanction was necessary under the Act.	Facts
The report of the Controller of Explosive, Baroda, clearly indicated that the substance recovered from the appellants was explosive of Class 2 as prescribed in Schedule I to the Explosives Rules 1983 (in short the Rules) as well as Explosive of Class 6 as defined in the said Schedule.	Facts
A licence is obligatory for possession, transportation and use of the explosive.	Facts
Since the substance recovered was an explosive as defined in Section 4(d) of the Act and no licence was detained, the conviction as wellmerited.	Facts
Learned Single Judge, held that no sanction was necessary under the Act for prosecution.	Facts
The article recovered were explosives and keeping in view the factual background the sentence as imposed was in order.4.	Facts
In support of the appeal, learned counsel for the appellants reiterated the points urges before the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the respondentState in response supported the judgment of the courts below.	Arguments of Respondent
It is to be noted that the plea relating to sanction is based on confusion between two statutes i.e. The Act and the Explosive substances Act 1908 (in short the Explosive Substances Act).	Reasoning
Prior sanction for prosecuting any person is provided under the Explosive Substances Act and there is no corresponding provision in the Act.	Reasoning
Therefore, the Trial Court and the High Court were justified in rejecting the plea.	Reasoning
Coming to the question whether the seized articles were explosives, report of the Controller of Explosive, which was produced as Exhibit73 clearly discloses that the substances recovered were explosives of Class 2 and Class 6 of Schedule I.	Issue
That being so, the plea that the articles were not explosives cannot be sustained.	None
The two Classes are as follows Class 2 Nitrate Mixture ClassNitratemixture means any preparation, other than gunpowder, which is formed by the mechanical mixture of a nitrate with any form of carbon with any carbonaceous substance not possessed of explosive substance not possessed of explosive properties, whether sulphur be or be not added to such preparation, and whether such preparation be not mechanically mixed with any other nonexplosive substance, and includes any explosive containing a perchlorate and not being a chlorate mixture, fulminate or nitrocompound as defined in this Schedule.	None
Class 6 Ammunition Class(1)	None
Ammunition means an explosive of any enclosed in any case or contrivance, or is otherwise adapted or prepared so as to form(a) a cartridge or charge for small arms, cannon or any other weapon, or (b) a safety or other fuse for blasting or for shells, or (c) a tube for firing explosives, or (d) a percussion cap, detonator, fog signal, shell, torpedo, war rocket or any other contrivance other than a firework.(2)	None
The ammunition class has three divisions, namely Division 1, Division 2 and Division 3.(3) Division 1 comprises exclusively of (1) Safety cartridges.	None
(ii) Safety fuses for blasting, (iii) Railway for signal, and (iv) Percussion caps.(4) Division 2, comprises any ammunition which does not contain its own means of ignition and is not included in Division 1, such as cartridges for small arms other than safety cartridges and chargers for common shells and torpedoes containing any explosives, tubes for firing explosives, and war rocket, which do not contain their own means of ignition.(5) Division 3, comprises any ammunition which contains its own means of ignition and is not included in Division1, such as detonators, fuses for blasting which are not safety fuses, tubes for firing explosives, containing their own means of ignition.	None
Note  The expression ammunition containing its own means of ignition means ammunition having an arrangement, whether attached to or forming part of the ammunition which is adapted to explode or fire the ammunition by friction or percussion.	None
Percussion cap does not include a detonator.	None
As per established prosecution version 180 nos.	Reasoning
of ammunition dynamites were found in possession of the accused.	Reasoning
Courts below have on evidence tendered found that Ammonium tubes with electrical red wire were recovered.	Reasoning
These articles are undisputedly covered by class6 as quoted above.8.	Reasoning
The substances recovered from the appellants clearly come within the definition of explosive as per Section 4(d) of the Act.	Reasoning
When the investigating officer was found to be trustful and in spite of incisive crossexamination, nothing material has been that brought to discredit his evidence, the Trial Court was justified in recording conviction on his evidence alone.9.	Reasoning
Coming to the plea about the sentence it would be relevant to note that 180 detonators were seized.	Reasoning
The value thereof has been fixed by the prosecution as Rs.900/.	Reasoning
The quantity seized clearly disproves the plea that the seized articles were intended to be used for digging wells.	Reasoning
The detonators were found to be of a company at Rourkela in Orissa, and were seized far away at Surat.	Reasoning
The fact that the accused persons tried to run away when police wanted to apprehend them is a significant factor.	Reasoning
In the aforesaid background the custodial sentence and fine imposed do not warrant any reduction.11.	Decision
The appeal is accordingly dismissed.	Decision
