 S.VERMA, J. Leave granted.	None
The short but ticklish which arises for decision in the present case is the meaning of the word each in the expression if the permission has not been granted by the stock exchange or each such stock exchange used in subsection (1A) of Section 73 of the companies Act, 1956.	None
This is the real question for decision in the present appeal.	None
Section 73 of the Companies Act, 1956 in so far as it is material is as under 73.	None
(1) Every company intending to offer shares or debentures to the public for subscription by the issue of a prospectus shall, before such issue, make an application to one or more recognised stock exchange for permission for the shares or debentures intending to be so offered to be dealt with in the stock exchange or each such stock exchange.(1A) Where a prospectus, whether issued generally or not, states that an application under subsection (1) has been made for permission for the shares or debentures offered thereby to be dealt in one or more recognised stock exchanges, such prospectus shall state the name of the stock exchange or, as the case may be, each such stock exchange , and any allotment made on an application in pursuance of such prospectus shall, whenever made, be void, if the permission has not been granted by the stock exchange or each such stock exchange , as the case may be, before the expiry of ten weeks from the date of the closing of the subscription lists Provided that where an appeal against the decision of any recognised stock exchange refusing permission for the shares o r debentures to be dealt in on that stock exchange has been preferred under section 22 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), such allotment shall not be void until the dismissal of the appeal.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The material facts which give rise to the above question are only a few.	Facts
On 31.5.1994 the appellant company issued a prospectus offering to the public for subscription 27, 40, 000 equity shares of Rs.10/ each in terms of the prospectus, intimating that applications have been made to the Stock Exchange at Coimbatore, Bombay and Madras for permission to deal in and for an official quotation in respect of the Equity Shares of the Company now being offered in terms of this prospectus.	Facts
The date of closing the subscription mentioned in the prospectus was 19.7.1994.	None
The period of ten weeks from the date of closing of the subscription list prescribed in Section 73(1A) for grant of permission by the Stock Exchange expired on 27.9.1994.	None
The allotment of shares was finalised on 16.9.1994.	Facts
Permission was granted by the Coimbatore Stock Exchange on 26.9.1994 and the trading commenced therein on 7.10.1994.	Facts
Permission was granted by the Madras Stack Exchange on 20.10.1994.	Facts
However, in spite of reminders issued on 18.8.1994 and 12.9.1994 by the Bombay Stock Exchange to the company to complete the required formalities, the necessary compliance was not made by the company which resulted in rejection of the companys application by the Bombay Stock Exchange on 28.9.1994.	Facts
The citywise break up of allotment of the shares shows that the number of shares allotted were 17, 44, 600 in Bombay, 3, 45, 400 in Coimbatore and 2, 89, 900 in Madras.	None
In this context, the effect of rejection of the application by the Bombay Stock Exchange on the allotment of shares arises for consideration under subsection (1A) of Section 73.	None
The question is Whether the entire allotment of shares is rendered void by virtue of Section 73(1A) because of the rejection of the application by the Bombay Stock Exchange to render ineffective even the grant of permission by the Coimbatore Stock Exchange within the specified period?The substance the contention of Shri F.S. Nariman is, that the consequence of rendering void the allotment made under Section 73(1A) envisaged by the provision cannot render ineffective the permission granted by the Coimbatore Stock Ex change within the prescribed period.	Arguments of Petitioner
The reply of Shri Harish Salve is that the consequence of rendering the entire allotment void is clearly envisaged where rejection of the application for permission is by any such stock exchange to which a pplication has been made.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Salve referred to the legislative history which led to the insertion of subsection (1A) to overcome the consequence of the decision of this court in Union of India Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Allied International Products Ltd.	Reasoning
An r., 1970 (3) SCC 594 , by the amendment of law in this manner.	Arguments of Respondent
It is, therefore, necessary at this stage to refer to the decision of this Court in Allied International Productss case (supra).	None
In Allied International Products case (supra) a similar question arose for decision prior to insertion of subsection (1A) in Section 73 when applications were made for permission to several stock exchange but only one out of them granted the permission to enlist the companys share.	None
That quest ion arose in the context of Section 73 (1), as it then stood, which was as under Where a prospectus, whether issued generally or not, states that application has been made or will be made for permission for the share or debentures offered thereby to be dealt in on a recognised stock exchange, any allotment made on an application in pursuance of the prospectus shall, whenever made, be void, if the permission has not been applied for before the tenth day after the first issue of the prospectus, or, if the permission has not been granted before the expiry of four weeks from the date of the closing of the subscription lists or such longer period not exceeding seven weeks as may, within the said four weeks, be notified to the applicant for permission by or on behalf of the stock exchange.	Reasoning
It was held by this Court as follows If applications are made to several Exchanges, some within the period of ten days after the first issue of the prospectus, and some beyond, or that one or more applications, but not all, is or are defective, and the error is not rectified, it would be unreasonable to hold that because some of the applications made beyond the tenth day after the first issue of the prospectus, or are defective, are liable to be rejected, the applications properly made before some of the Exchanges are also ineffective and the allotment made may be invalid.	None
(at page 601)	None
This precisely the effect of the argument of Shri Narain even after the change has been made by insertion of subsection (1A) in section 73.	None
It has, therefore, to be seen whether in spite of this change in the law subsequent to the decision of this Court in Allied International Productss case (supra) the position in law remains unaltered.	None
The Statement of objects and Reasons for making the amendment in the Companies Act clearly states as under Under the present Bill some other practices prevalent in the corporate sector, in so far as they may prove injurious or undesirable, are also sought to be checked.	None
T he provisions contained in the Bill designed for this purpose deal with the following (1) Failure to enlist shares with all the Stock Exchanges mentioned in a prospectus.	None
In legislating on this point, it is proposed to make an incidental amendment to Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956.	None
In the notes on clauses the portion relevant for this amendment is as under Clause 7 subclauses (i) and (iii) section 73 prescribes certain time limit for enlistment with the stock exchanges.	None
It also contemplates that enlistment has to be done in all the stock exchanges mentioned in the prospectus and case of failure to do so, the money received in respect of allotment of shares on the basis of the prospectus should be refunded within a specified time.	None
In the recent judgment in Union of India Vs.	None
Allied International Products Limited, the Supreme Court has held that if the stock exchange had intimated that it would give further consideration to an application, the time limit contemplated by the section will not operate.	None
It has also held that if any one of the stock exchanges mentioned in the prospectus approved the application for enlistment, it would mean sufficient compliance with the provisions of section 73 and the allotment made in pursuance of that prospectus would be valid.	None
It has been felt that the decision of the Supreme Court referred to above is likely to lead to complications inasmch as the investing public as well as underwriting institutions are likely to lose the protection hitherto enjoyed by them.	None
Hence section 73 is being amended suitably.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
It is, therefore, clear that the effect of the decision of this Court in Allied International Products Ltd. in this behalf was sought to be overcome by making a suitable amendment in Section 73 since it was visualised that the said decision is likely to lead to complication inasmuch as the investing public as well as underwriting institutions were likely to lose the intended protection enjoyed by them.	Reasoning
In other words the effect of the decision in Allied International Products Ltd that even if any of the stock exchanges mentioned in the prospectus approved the application for enlistment it would mean sufficient compliance with the provisions of Section 73 and allotment made in pursuances of that prospectus would be valid was sought to be overcome by amending Section 73 to provide that enlistment has to be done in all the stock exchanges mentioned in the prospectus and in the case of failure to do so the money received in respect of allotment of shares on the basis of the prospectus should be refunded within a specified time.	Reasoning
Thus the consequence of rendering the entire allotment of shares void was required to ensue if the enlistment contemplated in all the stock exchanges mentioned in the prospectus does not materialise.	Reasoning
There can be no doubt that the clear object of insertion of subsection (1A) in Section 73 was overcome the decision in Allied International Products Ltd. by amending the law in this manner.	Reasoning
The question is whether this object has been achieved by the language used in subsection (1A) of Section 73.The meaning and true purport of the word each in the relevant expression in Section 73(1A) is to be determined for this purpose.	Reasoning
In Collins Dictionary of the English Language, the meaning of each is given as every (one) of two or more considered individually and every means each one (of the class specified), without exception.	Reasoning
In Strouds Judicial Dictionary of Words and Phrases the true meaning of every is each one of all.	None
The meaning of the word each in the expression if the permission has not been granted by the stock exchange or each such stock exchange in subsection (1A) of Section 73 is now to be determined.	None
Subsection (1A) of Section 73 is now required that where a prospectus states that an application under subsection (1) has been made for permission for t he shares or debentures offered thereby to be dealt in one or more recognised stock exchanges, such prospectus shall state the name of the stock exchange or, as the case may be, each such stock exchange.	Reasoning
In other words, if the application is made only to one stock exchange then the name of that stock exchange is to be mentioned and where the prospectus states that application has been made to more than one recognised stock exchanges then it shall state the name of each such stock exchange, i.e. , every such stock exchange or in other words, all the stock exchanges to which the application has been made.	Reasoning
The second part of subsection (1A) of Section 73 then provides the consequence of refusal of the permission by saying that any allotment made on an application in pursuance of such prospectus shall be void if the permission has not been granted by the stock exchange or each such stock exchange, as the case may be, before the expiry of ten weeks from the date of the closing of t he subscription list.	Reasoning
This means that any allotment made shall be void if the permission has not been granted by the stock exchange where the application is made only to one stock exchange or each such stock exchange where the application is made to more than one stock exchange.	Reasoning
The expression each such stock exchange here must mean the same as in the earlier part of subsection (1A) of Section 73, i.e., each every or in other words, all such stock exchanges.	Reasoning
Thus, where t he prospectus held out that enlistment of shares would be in more than one stock exchange the consequence envisaged in subsection (1A) of Section 73 ensues to render void the entire allotment of shares unless the permission is granted by each and everyone or all of the stock exchanges named in the prospectus for enlisting the shares.	Reasoning
This is the plain meaning of subsection (1A) of Section 73.	Reasoning
In short, unless permission is granted by each or everyone of all the stock exchanges named in the prospectus for listing of shares to which application is made by the company, the consequence is to render the entire allotment void.	Reasoning
In other words, if the permission has not been granted by any one of the several stock exchanges named in the prospectus for listing of shares the consequence by virtue of subsection (1A) of Section 73 is to render the entire allotment void and the grant of permission by one of them is inconsequential.	Reasoning
This construction al so promotes the object of insertion of under section 73 by amendment of the law made to overcome the effect of the decision of this court in	Reasoning
Allied International Products Ltd.	Reasoning
The contention of Shri Nariman, learned counsel for the appellants is, therefore, untenable.	Reasoning
Consequently, the appeal fails and is dismissed.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
