Santosh Hegde, J. The appellants in these appeals and one Deepak Rajak were tried in S.T. Case No. V(4) of 1999 by the Additional District and Sessions Judge for offences punishable under Section 120B, 302 read with Section 34 IPC and Section 201 read with Section 34 IPC.	Issue
Learned Sessions Judge as per his judgment dated 29.3.2000 while acquitting Deepak Rajak convicted the other accused under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC, and sentenced them to undergo imprisonment for life with a fine of Rs. 2,000/, in default to undergo further RI for one year.	Issue
He did not award separate sentences for offences punishable under Section 120B and 201 read with 34 though he found them guilty of the said offences also.	Issue
The appellants herein preferred appeals before the High Court at Calcutta while State preferred a separate appeal against the acquittal of Deepak Rajak.	Issue
A Division Bench of the High Court as per its judgment dated 24.5.2001 dismissed the appeal of the appellants while it allowed the State appeal, and convicted Deepak Rajak also, for offences for which these appellants were sentenced.2.	Issue
Against the said judgment of the High Court the appellants have preferred the abovesaid criminal appeals.	Issue
Deepak Rajak who was convicted by the judgment of the High Court did prefer an SLP before this Court but since he did not surrender, as required under the Supreme Court Rules, his appeals came to be dismissed for default.	Issue
Therefore, it is only accused Nos. 1, 2, 4 and 5 who are before us in these appeals.	Issue
Brief facts necessary for disposal of these appeals are as followsOne of the deceased Pritam Chakraborty who was aged about 1617 years, was a student of Vivekananda Institution, Howrah.	Facts
He was staying with his widowed mother Purnima Chakraborty (PW6) at Mouza 5/2/1, Katapukar 3rd bylane, Kadamtala, Howrah.	Facts
The second deceased Rudra Parui who was of the same age as Pritam, was his classmate and a good friend.	Facts
He was residing with is father Uttam Kumar Parui (PW9) at Mouza 62, Tantipara Lane, P.S. Shibpur, Distt.	Facts
Howrah Apart from going to school together, they also used to go for tutorial classes together in the evening.	Facts
It is the prosecution case that deceased Pritam was having a love affair with one Reshma Gupta.	Facts
It is stated that A1 Mousam Singha Roy was also in love with said Reshma.	Facts
Because of this twist of love triangle, the prosecution alleges that said accused Mousam was jealous or angry with deceased Pritam.	Facts
It is because of this on 1.12.1998 appellant Mousam allegedly made a telephone call to Pritam at the residence of latters maternal uncle Sibananda Bhattacharjee (PW1) with whom Pritam and his mother PW6 were residing.	Facts
The telephone call in question was received by PW1 at about 8 a.m. and the caller identified himself as Mousam, a friend of Pritam who desired to speak to Pritam.	Facts
Thereupon PW1 called Pritam and handed over the phone to him.	None
During the conversation on the telephone, PW1 found Pritam perturbed and shaky therefore after the conversation PW1 asked Pritam what the matter was.	None
Though Pritam did not say anything in the beginning on being rebuked by PW1, he replied that Mousam had asked him to come to Howrah Bridge later in the night for which PW1 told him not to go there as desired by Mousam, Pritam then replied that since his friend Rudra (the other deceased) was going to accompany him there need be no apprehension.	Facts
It is the further case of prosecution that in the evening Pritam did not come back to his house from the tutorial class even by about 8.45 p.m. which was the normal time for him to return home after the tutorial class so his mother PW6 told PW1 about the nonarrival of Pritam.	None
PW1 comforted his sister by saying that Pritam might have gone by xeroxing some of his papers.	None
PW1 waited till about 9.30 p.m., then went in search of Pritam to the tutorial school and on the way he met the father of Rudra, Uttam Kumar Parui ( (PW9) and some others.	None
They told PW1 that even Rudra had not returned from coaching class and they were searching for him.	None
So all of them together went to the coaching class were they were told by the Principal of the Coaching class, Mrinal Mukherjee (PW14) that the boys had already left the class.	Facts
Thereafter at about 11p.m. PW1 with PW9 and other local people went to the Bantra Police Station and gave a verbal information about the missing of the boys to the Police Officer there.	Facts
It is further stated that PWs, 1, 9 and others went to the Howrah Station and searched for them on Howrah Bridge and even told the personnel of Government Railway Police Station (GRPS) about the missing boys and also gave them the description of the boys.	Facts
PW1, PW9 and others continued the search the search for the boys even on 2.12.1998 morning and being unsuccessful in their efforts, went to Bantra Police Station and lodged a missing Diary.	None
Thereafter, they went to their house.	Facts
It is the case of the prosecution that on 2.12.1998 at about 1011 a.m.	Facts
Debasish Sarkar (PW2) and Arun Polley (PW3) came to the house of PW9 and informed him that they had seen Pritam and Rudra in the company of accused near the Howrah Bridge on the night of 1.12.1998.	Facts
After listening to PWs2.	Facts
and 3, PW9 with his relatives went to PW1s house and told him about the information he got from PWs.	None
2 and 3.	Facts
According to PW1, after getting the information about PWs.	None
2 and 3, he along with PW9 and others searched for the boys and unable to trace them he went to Bantra P.S. and again reminded them of the missing boys but he was told by the Police since missing diary is recorded only in the morning, he will have to wait for some more time.4.	Facts
Since even till 3.12.1998 morning no information was received about the missing boys PW1 went again to Bantra PS. and lodged a written complaint which was signed by him and marked as Ex.1.	Facts
In the said complaint names of accused persons were mentioned.	Facts
It is the prosecution case that on 4.12.1998 the dead body of Pritam was traced near Hooghly Dock which was identified by PW1 and on 7.12.1998 the body of Rudra was found which was identified by PW9.	Facts
In the course of postmortem the doctor found certain antemortem injuries on the body of Pritam, he noted that injuries suffered by said deceased were due to manual strangulation and something.	None
He also recorded that Pritams death was due to premortem strangulation.	Facts
On the body of Rudra the doctor found certain bruises and contusions which were antemortem in nature.	Facts
The doctor opined that his death was due to the effect of asphyxia as a result of drowning which was antemortem and homicidal in nature.5.	Facts
During the course of investigation the accused persons were arrested and the police recovered a latter allegedly written by A1 from the house of appellant Bikash Jaiswal Vikky (A5).	None
Police also recovered an exercise book (khata) from which pages were torn for the purpose of writing the letter which was found in the house of Mousam (A1).	None
During the course of investigation the Police came to know that on 1.12.1998 when PWs.	None
2 and 3 were standing near the power house on the road leading to Howrah Bridge these witnesses had noticed the appellants and the deceased going towards the Howrah Bridge.	Facts
It is during the course of this investigation on 5.12.1998, one Rajesh Tiwari PW13 appeared in the Police Station and told the Investigating Officer that on 1.12.1998 at about 8.50 p.m. when he was returning from Bara Bazar, Calcutta to his house after making certain purchases, he had seen the accused persons engaged in a quarrel with 2 boys on the footpath of Howrah Bridge.	Facts
On further investigation it was found on 1.12.1998 one Dibyendu Shee PW15 while coming back from a game of cricket had found Mousam (A1) and a tall boy walking ahead of him and he could overhear a conversation in which Mousam allegedly told the tally boy together it could happen on that day.	Facts
PW15 further says that out of curiosity he asked the tall boy what would happen on that day to which the tall boy replied that the matter related to his friends Pritam and Mousam.	None
At that point of time this tall boy also made a gesture of moving his right hand horizontally indicating the nature of act.	Facts
On further investigation the Police came to know that PWs.23 and 24 who were Duty Constables on the Howrah Bridge had come to know from some passerby that 2 persons, either a boy and a girl or 2 boys had jumped into the Ganges from the bridge.	Facts
This was at about 9 or 9.05 p.m.	Facts
When these Constables proceeded to the place of incident they noticed about 200300 persons there therefore PW23 sent PW25 to the Police Station to inform the duty officer and he started clearing the crowd.	Facts
This witness also witnessed a cycle near Post No.12 of Howrah Bridge and therefore he took possession of the same.	Facts
This witness also says when he was there, 2 Constables from Post No.12 visited the place of incident.	Facts
It is based on these facts the appellants were charged and found guilty of the offences, as stated above.	Facts
Mr. P.K. Ghosh, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants, submitted that in the absence of any direct evidence the prosecution had to rely on circumstantial evidence to establish its case but in this process it has failed to establish beyond reasonable doubt all the necessary links found in the chain of circumstances.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the benefit of that failure ought to have gone to the appellants.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the evidences of so called witnesses who have spoken about seeing the deceased in the company of accused persons are so artificial that it is impossible for any prudent person to safely base a conviction on the said evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submitted that even the presence of these witnesses at the place mentioned by them at the relevant time apart from being a chance circumstance, it was also highly improbable.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the nonmentioning of the names of PWs.	None
2 and 3 in the FIR even though by them PW1 had come to know of the seeing of the accused and the deceased by PWs.	Arguments of Petitioner
2 and 3 on 1.12.1998 throws substantial doubt as to their presence at the sweetmeat stall.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel also argued the nonmentioning of the receipt of telephone call by PW1 on the night of 1.12.1998 to the Police or anybody else also creates a doubt at to the receipt of the said call.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel very seriously challenged the seizure of the letter as well as the exercise book, especially on the ground that the witnesses to the recovery Panchnama had not supported the recoveries.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also submitted that the judgments of the courts below are based purely on suspicion and are influenced by the tragic murders of 2 youngsters and are not based on legal evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Tapash Ray, learned senior counsel appearing for the State submitted both the courts below have considered the attack by the defence very minutely and have given good reasons for rejecting the said attack.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted though there are no eye witnesses to the actual assault on the deceased or throwing their bodies into the river from the bridge, the chain of circumstances relied upon by the prosecution starting from the morning of 1.12.1998 up to the arrest and recoveries made by the investigating agency clearly shows that it is the accused and the accused alone who are responsible for this dastardly crime.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted the factum of motive for A1 to do away with Pritam is evident from the said accuseds conduct as spoken to by PW6, mother of deceased Pritam which is supported by her neighbour PW7.	None
He also pointed out that the contents of the letter recovered from the house of Vikky (A5) showed the diabolocal plain of Mousam (A1) eliminate Pritam with a view to prevent him from being a thorn in his lovelife which fact is further supported by the evidence of PW15 who overheard the conversation of Mousam with his tall friend who was subsequently identified Vikky (A5).	None
He also argued that none of the witnesses who have supported the prosecution had any motive whatsoever to falsely implicate these accused persons.	None
He also pointed out the two courts below after considering the material on record having come to the concurrent finding of guilt of the appellants there should be no reasons why this Court should interfere with such a finding of the courts below.	Arguments of Respondent
In the course of his arguments, learned counsel for the appellants has also submitted that the courts below were more influenced by the poignant nature of the prosecution case than the legal nature of the evidence led by the prosecution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is in this context, he relied on a judgment of this Court in the case of Hanumant Govind Nargundkar Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
vs. State of M.P. (AIR 1952 SC 343 )	Arguments of Petitioner
wherein this Court while dealing with cases of circumstantial evidence held In dealing with circumstantial evidence the rules specially applicable to such evidence must be borne in mind.	Arguments of Petitioner
In such cases there is always the danger that conjecture or suspicion may take the place of legal proof.	Arguments of Petitioner
In cases where the evidence is of a circumstantial nature, the circumstances, from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should in the first instance be fully established, and all the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused.	Arguments of Petitioner
Again , the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency and they should be such as to exclude every hypothesis but the one proposed to be proved.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, there must be a chain of evidence so far complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and it must be such as to show that within all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.	Arguments of Petitioner
Apropos what was observed by this Court in the case of Hanumant Govind (Supra), it will be useful to note the warning addressed by Baron Alderson to the jury in Reg.	None
V. Hodge (1838 2 Lewin 227) which is also quoted with approval by this Court in the case of Hanumant Govind (supra)	None
The mind was apt to take a pleasure in adapting circumstance to one another, and even in straining them a little, if need be, to force them to form parts of one connected whole and the more ingenious the mind of the individual, the more likely was it, considering such matters, to overreach and mislead itself, to supply some little link that is wanting, to take for granted some fact consist with its previous theories and necessary to render them complete.	None
Bearing in mind the above caution delivered by this Court in appreciating circumstantial evidence as laid down in Hanumants case (supra), and the cautious words of Baron Alderson in regard to the possibility of our mind getting swayed by the tragic facts of the case and our assessment of evidence being influenced by our preconceived notions, we will now analyse the prosecution case.	None
The prosecution has relied on the following circumstances to establish its case against the appellants Appellant Mousam had made a telephone call on 1.12.1998 to deceased Pritam at the house of PW1 and had asked the deceased to meet him at the Howrah Bridge later in the night at about 9 p.m. as spoken by PW1(ii) Appellant Mousam was angry with Pritam because he was also friendly with Reshma Gupta which was considered as a hurdle by the said accused in the way of his love affair with said Reshma, as spoken to by PWs.	Arguments of Respondent
1, 6 and 7.(iii) PW15 had overheard on 1.12.1998 the plan of A1 and A5 to eliminate Pritam(iv)	Arguments of Respondent
Deceased and the accused persons were seen together at the powerhouse in the late evening of 1.12.1998 by PWs.2 and 3(v) Accused were seen having an altercation with 2 unknown boys at about 9 p.m. on the Howrah Bridge on 1.12.1998 by PW13(vi)	None
PWs22 and 25 Constables came to know that either 2 boys or a boy and a girl had jumped from the Howrah Bridge into the river at about 9 p.m. on 1.12.1998 and a cycle belonging to deceased Rudra was recovered near about that place(vii)	Arguments of Respondent
The deceased were missing since 1.12.1998 and their bodies were recovered on 4th and 7th December, 1998 and the medical reports showed that they had met with homicidal death(viii)	Arguments of Respondent
A letter allegedly written by A1 Mousam was recovered from the house of A5 contents of which showed the intention of A1 to eliminate deceased Pritam(ix)	Arguments of Respondent
The above letter was written in pages torn from an exercise book recovered from the house of A1.	Arguments of Respondent
To prove that deceased Pritam and Mousam A2 were in love with the same girl Reshma because of which A1 entertained an illwill against Pritam, the prosecution relies on the evidence of PWs.1, 6 and 7.	None
It also strongly relies on letter allegedly written by A1 to A5.	None
So far as PW1s evidence is concerned he merely says that he had come to know that there was a trinagular affair between Pritam, Reshma and Mousam.	None
The source of this information is not mentioned by him, therefore we do not place much importance on this evidence of PW1 in regard to the relationship between Pritam, Reshma and Mousam.	None
But PW6 in her evidence states that about a week prior to 1.12.1998, she had been a boy cycling in front of her house.	None
When asked Pritam had told her that the boys name was Mousam and he did not tolerate Pritams friendship with Reshma for which PW6 had advised her son not to mix with Reshma.	None
Her evidence finds corroboration from the evidence of PW7 who states that at the instance of PW6 he did approach the parents of Reshma in regard to her involvement with accused Mousam.	None
This part of their evidence would indicate there was an ongoing between Reshma on one side and Pritam and Mousam on the other, due to which the relationship between Pritam and Mousam, at least from the side of Mousam was not cordial.	None
To this extent, the prosecution case can be accepted.	None
We will now proceed to examine the other evidence led by the prosecution keeping in mind that the prosecution has established a not so cordial relationship between Pritam and Mousam but the question then is would this in any manner indicate that Mousam entertained an intention to eliminate Pritam?	None
In this regard, the prosecution as a link in its chain of circumstances has tried to establish this intention of Mousam by referring to a telephone call allegedly made by him to PW1s house on 1.12.1998 at about 8 a.m. PW1 states because of this telephone call he came to know that Pritam was asked by Mousam to come to Howrah Bridge at about 9 p.m. and Pritam had become nervous after receiving this call.	None
Seeing this PW1 advised Pritam not to go to Howrah Bridge but Pritam told him that since he was going in the company of Rudra (the other deceased) there need be no apprehension.	None
This part of the evidence if proved would establish that A1 had called Pritam to meet him at the Howrah Bridge which circumstance will be a relevant circumstance in the chain of prosecution case.	None
Therefore, we will now examine whether this part of PW1s evidence can be accepted as has been done by the two courts below.	None
In the night of 1.12.1998, PW1 came to know at about 8.45 p.m. from his sister PW6 that Pritam had not come home from the tutorial class as was the usual practice.	None
At this point of time this witness instead of telling his sister that Pritam had gone to meet A1 at Howrah Bridge, told her that he may be late because Pritam might have gone to get some papers xeroxed.	None
No explanation is given by this witness while in witness box why he gave such incorrect excuse to his sister.	None
It is then seen that this witness after waiting for some more time, went in search of Pritam.	None
On the way he met PW9 father of Rudra with some local people.	None
PW9 told PW1 even his son Rudra who accompanied Pritam had not come back therefore both of them went to Bantra Police Station and orally told the Police about the missing boys but this information was not reduced to writing by the Police.	None
Here it is to be noticed that PW1 did not tell the Police about the telephone call received by his nephew earlier in the day nor did he tell either PW9 or the Police that Pritam and Rudra could be in the company of A1 on the Howrah Bridge.	None
If we can accept the evidence of PW1 that he in fact received a telephone call on the morning of 1.12.1998 from Mousam.	None
A1, wanting to talk to deceased Pritam and after the telephone conversation Pritam had told PW1 that he was going to meet A1 and his friends on the Howrah Bridge at 9 p.m. in the company of Rudra then this would be a material piece of evidence connecting the accused to the crime.	None
Though the courts below have accepted this part of the evidence of PW1 we find it difficult to accept it, primarily because PW1 did not tell anybody about the receipt of this telephone call until he lodged the complaint on 3.12.1998.	None
In this background, if we peruse the evidence of this witness then it is seen on the night of 1.12.1998 when he went out in search of Pritam he met PW9 father of deceased Rudra who told him that his son was also missing and together they go to the tutorial school then to Howrah Station, Howrah Bridge, they meet the personnel of the GRPS they thereafter lodged an oral complaint with the Police about the missing boys but at no point of time PW1 mentioned the receipt of the telephone call to anybody.	None
This looks strange to us because if actually.	None
PW1 had the knowledge that the deceased were going to meet the accused on the Howrah Bridge then the first thing any reasonable man would have done is to share this information with PW9 or the Police and search for the known accused instead of going on a wildgoose chase.	None
Absence to do so without any proper explanation makes the statement of PW1 as to receipt of the telephone call suspect.	None
Then on 2.12.1998 when again PW1 and PW9 in the company of locals went to search the deceased at various places and went to Bantra Police Station to lodge a Police Diary of the missing persons even that PW1 does not mention about the receipt of telephone call.	None
For the first time we notice PW1 comes out with this case of telephone call on 3.12.1998 when he lodged a complaint Ex.	None
P1 with the Police as to the missing of the deceased.	None
As noted above, there is absolutely no explanation why he did not inform anyone between 1.12.1998 and 3.12.1998 about the receipt of telephone call.	None
This omission coupled with the fact that the investigating agency has not made any efforts to verify whether any such telephone call was received by PW1 on his telephone on 1.12.1998 makes us think that this part of PW1s evidence cannot be relied upon to link the other evidence led by the prosecution to prove its case against the accused persons.	None
Apart from the receipt of telephone call in the evidence of PW1, nothing material connecting the accused to the murder is found.	None
He of course says that the deceased were missing from the night of 1.12.1998 and he joined PW9 and others in search of them and PW9 told him that PWs.	None
2 and 3 had seen the deceased in the company of the accused but this fact he did not mention in his complaint Ex. P1.	None
Even then the courts below have chosen to accept the evidence of PW1 in regard to the receipt of telephone call on its face value without seeking even minimal corroboration.	None
Taking into consideration the fact that PW1 had repeated opportunities of disclosing the receipt of telephone call to others, as stated above, his failure to do so makes this part of his evidence unacceptable to us in spite of the fact that the same has been accepted by two courts below because findings of the courts below in this regard are contrary to all probabilities and reasonableness.	None
Prosecution has relied on the evidence of PW9 father of Rudra to show that his son was missing since the night of 1.12.1998 and he was told by PWs 2 and 3 that they had seen his son in the company of Pritam and other accused persons on the Howrah Bridge on 1.12.1998 at about 9 p.m. and that he in the company of PW1 and other locals had searched these 2 missing boys but did not succeed in that quest.	None
He also supports PW1 to the extent that they went to Bantra Police Station to lodge a missing persons report for the first time orally and for the second time in writing and that the dead body of his son was recovered on 7.12.1998 and he also took possession of the cycle belonging to his son from the Port Police.	None
While discussing the evidence of PW1 we have noticed that the fact that PWs.	None
2 and 3 had told PW9 about the missing persons is not mentioned in the FIR and PW1 had not told him about the receipt of telephone can on 1.12.1998 in the morning.	None
This witness states that on 2.12.1998 when he came to know from PWs.2 and 3 about the missing boys being in the company of the accused persons, he went to house of Pw1 and told him what was told to him by PWs.2 and 3.	None
He also states that he gave the addresses of A2 to A5 to PW1 and further states that together they searched for these accused persons but could not trace them.	None
PW1 does not corroborate this part of the statement as to the mentioning of the names of the accused persons as also searching for them on 2.12.1998 in the company of PW1.	None
We further notice this part of PW9s evidence is not even supported by PW43, the investigating officer, who in his evidence states that PW9 did not tell him at the time of recording his statement that he went to the house of the accused persons and they were not traceable.	None
Thus, there is an attempt on the part of PW9 to improve his evidence given in the court.	None
Be that as it may, we do not think the evidence of PW9 takes the prosecution case any further than proving the fact that his son along with Pritam went missing on 1.12.1998 and their search for them proved futile on 1st and 2nd December, 1998 and that PWs.2 and 3 told him that they had seen the missing boys in the company of the accused on 1.12.1998.	None
Suffice it to state here that this evidence of PW9 could, at the most, corroborate the prosecution case in regard to the links in the circumstantial chain provided such links have been independently established.	None
Prosecution to establish its case connected with motive has relied on the evidence of PW15 Dibyendu Shee.	None
His evidence in our opinion makes a very interesting reading though devoid of any merit.	None
He claims to be a cricketer playing in Tikiapara Railway quarters ground.	None
He is also a student of Vivekananda Institution where the deceased were studying.	None
On 1.12.1998 afternoon after the game he was going out of the cricket ground on his cycle when he found accused Mousam whom he knew, going ahead of him in the company of a tall boy whose identity obviously this witness did not know at that time.	None
This witness then says that he overheard a conversation between accused Mousam and the tall boy to the effect together it could happen on that day.	None
So this witness got curious and asked the tall boy what will happen on that day, to which the tall boy is supported to have answered Your friend Pritam and Mousam are related to this matter.	None
On further questioning by this witness the tall boy replied by showing his right hand horizontally (across).	None
This tall boy was identified by this witness in jail for the first time.	None
This piece of evidence has been construed by the two courts below as a piece of evidence for establishing the intention of Mousam to eliminate the deceased Pritam in the company of A5.	None
A reading of this evidence to our mind shows this evidence is ex facie artificial.	None
This witness though he knew A1 did not know Vikky till he identified him in jail on 6.12.1998 for the first time.	None
He was examined by the Police for the first time on 6.12.1998.	None
There is nothing on record to show how the I.O. came to know that this witness had seen accused Mousam and Vikky together on 1.12.1998.	None
In such circumstances bearing in mind the fact that if really the 2 accused persons were discussing a plan to eliminate Pritam it is impossible to believe that the accused would share this information with a stranger in the manner as stated by this witness so as to provide some evidence against their involvement in the crime.	None
But the courts below proceeded to accept the evidence of this witness and rejected the argument of the defence that this evidence is incongruous, unusual and contrary to the course of human conduct solely on the ground that he had identified A5 in a test identification parade, relevance of which for the purpose of rejecting the defence challenge to PW15s evidence we fail to understand.	None
At any rate we agree with the argument addressed on behalf of the appellants that the evidence of PW15 is highly artificial and opposed to normal human conduct and unworthy of acceptance by any standard.	None
We will now consider the prosecution case in regard to the accused and the deceased being seen together on the night of 1.12.1998.	None
For this purpose the prosecution has firstly relied upon the evidence of PWs.	None
2 and 3.	Facts
The evidence of these two witnesses will be considered by us together.	None
They stated that both of them resided in Thakur Ramkrishna Lane, Howrah.	None
PWs2 and 3 say that they knew the accused persons and the deceased.	None
They knew deceased Rudra because he was a local boys of their locality.	None
PW1 states that he knew Pritam because he used to visit Rudra, he states that he knew the accused persons because they use to play cricket in Dumurjola ground which place this witness used to visit to watch cricket matches, though they were not of the same policy locality as that of this witness.	None
Both these witnesses PWs2 and 3 state that on 1.12.1998 at about 8.30 p.m. they were purchasing sweetmeat at a stall opposite the powerhouse at Kadamlala, at that time, PW2 saw accused persons going towards of Howrah Bridge with Rudra and he asked Rudra where he was going in the night to which Rudra supposedly replied that he was going with his friend towards Howrah.	None
PW2 also says that he identified the accused persons because he had seen them play cricket.	None
In his evidence he further states on 2.12.1998 he informed PW9 and some other people of the locality that on 1.12.1998 at 8.30 p.m. he had seen the deceased, the accused and some others proceeding towards Howrah.	None
This witness was cross examined at length suggesting among other things that they could not have been present at that place at that time.	None
Defence also challenged the identification of the accused by this witness.	None
He was also pointedly cross examined in regard to the location of the sweetmeat stall with reference to the road leading from the tutorial coaching class to Howrah Bridge.	None
It was suggested by the defence that if one has to go from the tutorial class to Howrah Bridge the road via the powerhouse is a longer route and nobody would normally take such a route to reach the Howrah Bridge.	None
Of course this witness has denied the same.	None
In regard to the possibility of this witness identifying the accused at the cricket ground, the defence has put searching questions and this witness has admitted that he was not able to say the names of other boys including those from his locality who played cricket in that stadium.	None
He has not given given any specific reason for having given the names of only the accused out of the large number of boys playing in the stadium.	None
But what is important to notice in regard to the evidence of PW2 is that though he did mention to PW9 on 2.12.1998 that he had seen the accused and the deceased together on 1.12.1998, and the said information was conveyed to PW1 in their presence, the same was not recorded in the FIR which is a glaring omission creating doubt as to this witness having told PW9 about they having seen and identified the accused and deceased at the time and date mentioned by them.	None
Similar is the evidence of PW3.	None
He in his examination in chief had stated that while he was paying the price of the sweetmeat, he saw PW2 talking to Rudra, Vikky, Tikky, Rabindra , Deepak and Mousam.	None
He also stated that Rudra had his cycle with him and thereafter these boys proceeded towards Howrah maidan and when PW2 questioned Rudra, he told him that he was going with his friends to that side.	None
He also states on 2.12.1998 he informed PW9 what he had seen on 1.12.1998.	None
This witness also has been cross examined by the defence as to their chance presence a the place of incident and their possibility of having seen and identifying the accused persons at that point of time.	None
This witness has admitted that there were a large number of people moving on the road at that point of time and he has not given any specific reasons for recognising these accused persons on that date.	None
Apart from the fact that names of PWs.2 and 3 are not mentioned in the FIR, they have also not told the I.O. in their statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. that they had gone to the sweetmeat shop on that day.	None
So far as PW3 is concerned it is seen from the evidence of PW43 Rupak Sarkar, the I.O. that this witness had not even stated in his statement to the Police that he had known the accused persons from before.	None
Therefore the evidence of these witnesses in the court in regard to their presence at the sweetmeat stall becomes an improvement.	None
In regard to PW3, there is also an improvement in regard to the identification of accused by him.	None
Thus, in the background of the fact that they are chance witnesses, in our opinion we think it not safe to rely on the evidence of these witnesses because their names are not mentioned in the FIR, they did not tell the I.O. about their presence at the sweetmeat stall and PW3 improved his statement in regard to the identification of the accused.	None
The courts below while accepting the evidence of all these witnesses rejected the plea of defence to discard their evidence solely because they were independent witnesses.	None
The High Court also observed that the omission of their names in the FIR is not fatal because all details need not be mentioned in the FIR.	None
Thus certain glaring contradictions omissions in the evidence of PWs.	None
2 and 3 and the absence of their names in the FIR has been very lightly discarded by the courts below.	None
The next witness relied by the prosecution to show the presence of the accused and the deceased near Howrah Bridge is PW13 Rajesh Tiwari.	None
This witness in his evidence states he is a resident of M.S.P.C. Lane, Howrah.	None
He had gone to Bara Bazar in Calcutta to purchase 2 mirrors and while returning by foot he purchased a windsheeter on the way and ate some Singharas.	None
At about 8.50 p.m. he was proceeding on the right side footpath of the Howrah Bridge when he noticed the accused persons having an altercation with 2 boys whose names he did not know inspite of knowing the identity, he did not intervene in the altercation.	None
He submits when he came to know 2 boys had been murdered on the Howrah Bridge on 1.12.1998, hew went to the Police Station on 5.12.1998 to inform the, voluntarily about he having witnessed the accused and the deceased on the Howrah Bridge on 1.12.1998.	None
This witness has admitted that his brother was involved in a murder case registered in Bantra Police Station which was investigating the case of the murders of Pritam and Rudra also.	None
To a question asked by the defence as to the involvement of his brother in a murder case as stated above, this witness answered thus XXmn.	None
for accd.	None
Ramkrishna.xxx Jitendra Tiwari is my elder brother.	None
I do not know whether my elder brother is an accd.	None
of murder case or not in Bantra P.S. Case No. 78/1998 dated 2.10.1998.	None
In this case my elder brother was arrested Suggestion put to this witness was that at the instance of the Police, because his brother was seeking bail in the said murder case, he had deposed falsely.	None
This witness of course has denied that fact but the fact remains his brother was accused in the murder case.	None
Therefore, we will consider the evidence of this witness PW13 in the background of the fact that his brother was arrested on a charge of murder by the Bantra Police Station.	None
Admittedly, he has no known source of income, he is a resident of Howrah, still he goes all the way to Bara Bazar, Calcutta, to purchase two mirrors, and coincidentally, he happens to be present at the right spot and at the right time to see the altercation among these boys.	None
The fact that he had gone to Bara Bazar to purchase mirrors, was not mentioned to the Police at the time when his statement was recorded itself is an elaborate improvement in his evidence before the court.	None
In this background, if we examine his evidence we notice the timing of his presence on the Howrah Bridge is too farfetched a coincidence to accept coupled with the fact that his brother was involved in a pending murder case and of all the witnesses, this witness volunteered to go to the Police Station after 4 days to inform them of what he noticed on 1.12.1998 would make his evidence highly artificial for acceptance by any reasonable person.	None
In such circumstances we think the High Court ought to have been more cautious in accepting the evidence of this witness.	None
For all the above reasons, the evidence of PWs.	None
2. 3, 13 and 15 to which we have referred to hereinabove in our opinion does not inspire confidence in us so as to accept the same for the purpose of basing a conviction.	None
The prosecution then relies on the evidence of PWs.22 and 25 to establish the fact that on 1.12.1998 at about 9 pm.	None
an incident had taken place on the Howrah Bridge in which 2 youngsters allegedly jumped into the river.	None
These two witnesses were the Beat Constable on duty at the Howrah Bridge on that day.	None
PW22 in his evidence states on 1.12.1998 he was posted at North Port Police station as a Constable and he was on duty on the North side of Howrah Bridge from 8 to 12 p.m. along with another Constable Hari Sankar Roy.	None
PW25, While on duty at about 9 p.m. and when they were proceeding towards Howrah side from Calcutta on foot and they heard a cry of someone that a boy and a girl had jumped into the Ganges.	None
Somebody else told them that 2 boys had jumped into the Ganges so they proceeded to the place of the incident and they found 200 to 300 persons present there.	None
Out of the assembled persons some were saying that a boy and a girl had jumped and some others were saying 2 boys had jumped into the river.	None
He then sent his partner to the Police Station to inform the Duty Officer and he started dispersing the crowd.	None
He found a cycle by the side of Post No. 12 of Howrah Bridge.	None
He took the cycle to the Police Station.	None
He had identified the said cycle which was later found to be that of deceased Rudra.	None
This evidence of PW22 does not take the prosecution case any further than the fact that on 1.12.1998 at about 9 p.m. he heard that 2 persons had jumped from the Howrah Bridge.	None
But something material comes out of his cross examination during which he states there are Police Goomties in the Howrah Bridge.	None
In each Goomti one Constable and one Officer remains posted round the clock.	None
There are policemen in civil dress guarding the bridge and occasionally officers also check the bridge on mobile duty.	None
He further states that the traffic department controls the traffic on Howrah Bridge and the incident in question would have taken place about 2025 cubits from Post or Goomty No. 12.	None
He also stated that at the time of the incident there were a large number of people either present at the place of incident or were travelling on the bridge.	None
He also stated that on being informed the officers came to the spot and he was asked to take the cycle to the Police Station.	None
From his evidence it is clear that at all given times or at least at 9 p.m. on 1.12.1998 on the Howrah Bridge there were a large number of pedestrians and traffic.	None
It is also clear from his evidence nearly 200 to 300 persons were present when or at about the time the incident took place.	None
From the evidence of this witness, it is also seen that at any given point of time, there are a number of policemen guarding the Howrah Bridge some are stationed in the Goomties, some patrolling the bridge in civilian clothes, apart from occasional supervision by the higher officers.	None
It is also clear from the evidence of this witness that at the time of the alleged incident, there were hundreds of people present on the bridge.	None
In this background, if really an incident as stated by the prosecution has taken place near Goomty No.12 which is hardly 20 to 30 cubits from the place of the incident, could these accused persons have escaped the said place after the murder of the deceased without being either noticed or chased by the Police at least?	None
The incident as described by the prosecution shows that 5 accused persons assaulted at least one of the deceased and physically threw both of them over the bridge.	None
If it is really true, it does not appeal to ordinary commonsense that neither the Police nor anyone out of the onlookers in the crowd either tried to prevent the incident in question or prevent the accused from fleeing the place of incident or at least would not have raised an alarm which would have attracted the otherwise complacent policemen on duty on the bridge.	None
These are not circumstances which could be easily discarded on the specious plea that of late independent witnesses do not get involved in preventing crime or becoming witnesses to such crime.	None
How then did they get PWs.	None
2, 3, 13 and 15 to give evidence?	None
To this extent, we think the explanation of the prosecution as to the nonavailability of an independent witness is contradictory.	None
There is another major doubt as to the place of incident as projected by the prosecution which has alleged that the incident took place at about 9 pm.	None
on the Howrah Bridge at a time, according to PWs, 3, 13, 22 and 25, there were hundreds of pedestrians and vehicular traffic, according to PW22, there were many police personnel also present on the bridge.	None
Then will it be reasonable for the court to accept that these accused chose such a busy place to commit the crime?	None
We think not.	None
In our opinion, even this part of the prosecution case is totally opposed to ordinary human conduct.	None
At this stage, it will be relevant to discuss the recoveries of a letter and a book by the prosecution which according to the prosecution establishes the further motive for murder.	Reasoning
In this regard, the prosecution relies on the evidence of PW35 Barun Polley and PW36 Subhro Sen to establish the fact that letter Ex.	Reasoning
V allegedly written by accused Mousam to accused Vikky was recovered from the house of Vikky, while PW16 Sukamal Dutta and PW17 Chiranjib Das were examined for the purpose of proving the recovery of exercise book (khata) from the house of accused Mousam.	Reasoning
Prosecution has also relied upon the evidence of handwriting experts and the forensic laboratory personnel to establish the fact that the letter was in the handwriting of the accused and the pages on which the said letter was written were removed from the exercise book belonging to Mousam.	Reasoning
The defence has seriously challenged the recovery contending that the recoveries were not proved as required in law.	Reasoning
That part, the learned counsel for the appellants also attacked the prosecution case as to the handwriting of A1 in the letter as also the legality of obtaining specimen handwriting by the Police during the investigation.	Reasoning
We do not think it is necessary for us to go into all these arguments because after examining the evidence of Panch witnesses to the recoveries, we think the prosecution has not established the recovery of the exercise book from the house of Mousam, A1 as also the letter from the house of Vikky, A5.	Reasoning
A perusal of the evidence of PWs.16 and 17 who were the Panch witnesses for the recovery of the exercise book shows that they have not really seen the place from where this book was recovered by the I.O. From their evidence it is noticed that in the case of the book, the I.O. went inside the house of A1 and came out with the book.	Reasoning
Admittedly , these Panch witnesses have not seen where exactly from the house this book was recovered.	Reasoning
They have only spoken about the fact that the I.O. came out of the house with the book and told them that he recovered it from the room of Mousam.	Reasoning
A1.	None
Almost similar is the evidence of PWs.	Reasoning
35 and 36 who were the Panch witnesses for the recovery of the letter from the house of Vikky, A5.	Reasoning
These witnesses have also not seen the actual recovery of the letter.	None
They had only seen the I.O. who told them that the letter was recovered from the house of A5 and signed the seizure memo.	Reasoning
In our opinion this evidence is insufficient to prove the recovery.	Reasoning
The very purpose of requiring a Panch to witness the recovery is to see that independent witnesses vouchsafe for the fact that a particular thing was recovered from a place where the prosecution alleges it was found.	Reasoning
It is absolutely necessary for these Panch witnesses to see and observe from where exactly these articles were recovered.	Reasoning
It is not sufficient if the I.O. produced certain articles and informed the Panch witnesses that he has recovered it from a particular place, unless the actual place of recovery from where the article was recovered is seen by the Panch witnesses.	Reasoning
In the absence of the same, their signatures on the recovery Panchnama become useless in proving the recoveries.	Reasoning
In the instant case we have noticed that the Panch witnesses who signed the Panchnama for the recovery of the letter and the exercise book, have specifically in their evidence under oath, stated that the I.O. went inside the respective room house and came out the articles and told the Panch witnesses that he had recovered them.	Reasoning
None of the Panch witnesses had seen the actual recoveries therefore, as contended by the defence, the prosecution has failed to establish the recoveries as required in law.	Reasoning
The fact that the mother of Mousam A1, had signed the recovery Panchnama in regard to the exercise book or mother of A3 had signed the Panchnama for the recovery of letter from the house of A5 is of no consequence.	Reasoning
They are not the Panch witnesses, their evidence is not before the court.	Reasoning
In such a situation we agree with the learned counsel for the appellants that the recoveries are not established in accordance with law hence the same has to be ignored.27.	Reasoning
Before we conclude, we must place on record the fact that we are not unaware of the degree of agony and frustration that may be caused to the society in general and the families of the victims in particular, by the fact that a heinous crime like this goes unpunished, but then the law does not permit the courts to punish the accused on the basis of moral conviction or on suspicion alone.	Reasoning
The burden of proof in a criminal trial never shifts, and it is always the burden of the prosecution to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt on the basis of acceptable evidence.	Reasoning
In a similar circumstances this Court in the case of Sarwan Singh Rattan Singh vs. State of Punjab (AIR 1957 SC 637 ) stated thus It is no doubt a matter of regret that a foul coldblooded and cruel murder should go unpunished.	None
There may also be an element of truth in the prosecution story against the accused.	Reasoning
Considered as a whole, the prosecution story may be true but between may be true and must be true there is inevitably a long distance to travel and the whole of this distance must be covered by the prosecution by legal, reliable and unimpeachable evidence before an accused can be convicted.	Reasoning
It is also a settled principle of criminal jurisprudence that the more serious the offence, the stricter the degree of proof, since a higher degree of assurance is required to convicted the accused.29.	Reasoning
We are also aware that this Court does not disturb the concurrent findings of the courts below if the same are based on legal evidence merely because another view is possible.	Reasoning
Thus, keeping in mind the caution expressed by Baron Alderson (supra) as also the need to respect the concurrent findings of two courts below, we have assessed the evidence in this case very carefully, but in spite of the same we are unable to concur with the findings of the courts below.	Reasoning
In our opinion, both the courts below have departed from the rule of prudence while appreciating the evidence led by the prosecution.30.	Reasoning
On the above basis, we notice that The prosecution has not satisfactorily established the receipt of telephone call on 1.12.1998 from Mousam to deceased Pritam as spoken to by PW1.b) the evidence of PWs.2, 3, 13 and 15 are not creditworthy hence not safe to be relief uponc) the recoveries of the letter from the house of A5 and the exercise book from the house of A1 are not proved as required in law Therefore, in our opinion the circumstances relied on by the prosecution in this case are neither fully established nor are consistent with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused.	Reasoning
These circumstances do not exclude the hypothesis of innocence of the accused, therefore, the appellants are entitled to the benefit of reasonable doubt.	Reasoning
Accordingly, we allow these appeals, set aside the judgments of the courts below and acquit the appellants of the charges framed against them.	Reasoning
The appeals stand allowed.	Decision
The appellants, if in custody, shall be released forthwith, if not required in any other case.	Decision
