Brijesh Kumar, J. Leave granted.	None
The above noted four appeals arise out of the proceedings before the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal Tis Hazari, Delhi in Suit No. 325 of 1995.	Issue
Since in all the appeals the judgment and order passed by the Division Bench of Delhi High Court has been challenged and the matters relate to the same accident, all these appeals have been heard together and they are being disposed of by this order.	Issue
The brief facts are that Dr. Suresh K. Mahajan aged 4748 years a medical graduate went to America and established himself in the medical profession and became an American National.	Facts
He established his own hospital in Michigan, U.S.A. He was on visit to India and on February 3, 1995 while proceeding to Jaipur from Delhi in a Maruti Car No.	Facts
DL4CB1926 belonging to one of the two brothers travelling with him, a truck No. HR29D1125 hit the rear part of the Maruti Car.	None
Dr. Mahajan was sitting on the back seat was injured and succumbed to his injuries.	Facts
The Dependents of Dr. Suresh K. Mahajan filed a petition under Section 166 of the Motor Vehicles Act for compensation on account of death of Dr. Mahajan.	Facts
According to the claimants.	Facts
Dr. Mahajan had specialized in the field of Nephrology and had set up his good practice and a hospital in Michigan USA.	Facts
According to the claimants, income of the deceased was progressively increasing every year out of his practice and the hospital and in the year 1994 his income was to the tune of 9 lacs US dollars.	Facts
At the time time of his death Dr. Suresh K. Mahajan left behind his wife Patricia Jean Mahajan, two daughters, a son and his parents residing in Delhi.	Facts
According to the claimants, he was providing good education to his children and had also been sending a sum of Rs. 8,000/ to his parents in Delhi.	Facts
A compensation for a sum of Rs. 54 crores was claimed.4.	Facts
The Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal, after appreciation of the evidence and the material on the record and on detailed discussion therefor, recorded the finding that Dr. Mahajan received injuries and died because of the rash and negligent driving of the Troller No. HR 29D1125.	Facts
So far the amount of compensation is concerned, the Tribunal came to the conclusion that the carry home income of the deceased was 3,09204 US Dollars.	None
Out of which, 2/3rd amount was set apart on account of self expenses of the deceased and 1/3rd amount was held to be the amount of dependency which came to 1,03068 US Dollars.	Facts
A multiplier of 7 was applied to arrive at the figure of compensation, the amount came to 7,21,476 US Dollars, out of which deduction on account of benefits of social security system LIC was deducted which included an amount of 2,50,000 US Dollars received by the claimants on account of personal life insurance of Dr. Mahajan.	Facts
The other amounts paid to Mrs. Mahajan and two of her children on account of social security coming to a sum of 51,300 US Dollars were also deducted.	Facts
The Tribunal deducted a total amount of 3,22,900/ dollars.	Facts
Applying the exchange rate of Rs. 30/ a sum of Rs. 1.19 crores was awarded with interest at the rate of 12 from the date of filing of the petition up to the date of payment, the total amount thus come to about Rs. 1.62 crores.5.	Facts
The claimants approached the High Court in appeal.	Facts
The learned Single Judge found that carry home income of the deceased was 3,39,445 US Dollars and out of the said amount, 1/3rd of it instead of 2/3rd was liable to be deducted on account of self expenditure of the deceased, the amount of dependency, thus, was fixed at 226297 US dollars.	Facts
The learned Single Judge applied the multiplier of 10 and disallowed any deductions on account of social security system.	Facts
The same rate of interest was maintained as awarded but the rate of exchange at Rs. 47/ was applied being the current rate as then prevailing.	Facts
The total amount of compensation thus arrived at, came to Rs. 10.38 crores.	Facts
The FAO No. 273 of 1998 preferred by the claimants was thus allowed in the manner indicated above.	Facts
And the appeal preferred by the United India Insurance Company Ltd. FAO No. 366 of 1998 was dismissed with an observation that there was no scope to disturb the finding of the Tribunal on the question of negligence of offending troller driver.	Facts
The parties preferred three Letters Patent Appeals before the Division Bench, which have been decided by the judgment and order dated 17.10.2001.	Facts
The LPA No. 179 of 2001, preferred by Patricia Mahajan, and LPA No. 225 of 2001 and 236 of 2001 had been filed by the United Insurance Company Ltd. challenging the amount of compensation as awarded by the learned Single Judge and also the order upholding the finding of rash and negligent driving on the part of driver of the troller.	Facts
By means of impugned judgment, the Division Bench maintained the order passed by the learned Single Judge but for application of multiplier and the exchange rate.	Facts
In so far it related to exchange rate of Dollar, the Division Bench observed that it was a closed chapter since the amount awarded by the Tribunal at the exchange rate of Rs. 30/ was withdrawn by the claimants and the exchange rate of Rs. 47/ as awarded by the Single Judge was disallowed.	Facts
The Division Bench applied the multiplier of 13 according to second schedule to the Act referable to Section 163A of the Act.	Facts
It was found that there was no reason not to follow the schedule which has been held by the Supreme Court to be safe guide to arrive at the amount of just compensation.	Facts
In the result, the total amount i.e. principal with interest came to about Rs. 16.12 crores.6.	Facts
The above noted appeals have been filed against the judgment of the Division Bench, the United Insurance Company Ltd. raising a grievance against application of multiplier of 13 and disallowance of deduction on account of social security system.	Facts
They also feel aggrieved by award of interest at the rate of 12 per annum.	Facts
In one of the appeals preferred by the United India Insurance Company the finding of rash and negligent driving on the part of driver of the troller has also been sought to be challenged.	Facts
In the appeal preferred by the claimants, conversion rate of Dollar in terms of Rupees has been asked Rs. 47/ as was awarded by the learned Single Judge.	Facts
We may first take up the question of application of appropriate multiplier in the facts and circumstances of this case.	None
The multiplier of 13, has been applied by the Division Bench of the High Court strictly following the Second Schedule to the Act referable to Section 163A of the Act.	Facts
The Petition was filed by the claimant for award of compensation under Section 166 of the Motor Vehicles Act.	None
Before adverting to the case law on the point cited by the learned counsel for both the sides, it may be beneficial to peruse the two provisions indicated above.	None
Section 163A as inserted by Act 54 of 1994 w.e.f	None
. 14.11.1994 reads as under 163A. Special Provisions as to payment of compensation on structured formula basis  (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law for the time being in force or instrument having the force of law, the owner of the motor vehicle of the authorised insurer shall be liable to pay in the case of death or permanent disablement due to accident arising out of the use of motor vehicle, compensation, as indicated in the Second Schedule, to the legal heirs or the victim, as the case may be.	None
Explanation For the purpose of this subsection, permanent disability shall have the same meaning and extent as in the Workmens Compensation Act, 1923 (8 of the 1923).(2)	None
In any claim for compensation under subsection (1), the claimant shall not be required to plead or establish that the death or permanent disablement in respect of which the claim has been made was due to any wrongful act or neglect or default of the owner of the vehicle or vehicles concerned or of any other person.(3)	None
The Central Government may, keeping in view the cost of living by notification in the Official Gazette, from the time to time amend the Second Schedule.	None
The noticeable features of this provision are that it provides for compensation in the case of death or permanent disablement due to accident arising out of use of Motor Vehicle.	None
The amount of compensation would be as indicated in the Second Schedule.	None
The claimant is not required to plead or establish that the death or permanent disablement was due to any wrongful act or negligence or default of the owner of the vehicle or any other person.	None
Award of compensation according to Schedule under this provision is also known as structured formula.	None
Section 166 reads as under Application for compensation (1) An application for compensation arising out of an accident of the nature specified in subsection (1) of section 165 may be made(a) by the person who has sustained by the injury or(b) by the owner of the property or(c) where death has resulted from the accident, by all or any of the legal representatives of the deceased or(d) by any agent duly authorised by the person injured or all or any of the legal representatives of the deceased, as the case may beProvided that where all the legal representatives of the deceased have not jointed in any such application for compensation, the application shall be made on behalf of or for the benefit of all the legal representatives of the deceased and the legal representatives of the deceased and the legal representatives who have not so joined shall be impleaded as respondents to the application.(2)	None
Every application under subsection (1) shall be made, at the option of the claimant, either to the Claims Tribunal having jurisdiction over the area in which the accident occurred or to the Claims Tribunal within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the claimant resides or carries on business or within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the defendant resides, and shall be in such from and contain such particulars as may be prescribedProvided that where no claim for compensation under section 140 is made in such application, the application shall contain a separate statement to that effect immediately before the signature of the applicant.(4)	None
The claims Tribunal shall treat any report of accidents forwarded to it under subsection (6) of Section 158 as an application for compensation under this Act.	None
It would also be necessary to peruse subsection 1 of Section 165 which reads as under Claims Tribunals  (1) A State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute one or more Motor Accidents Claims Tribunals (hereafter in this Chapter referred to as Claims Tribunal) for such area as may be specified in the notification for the purpose of adjudicating upon claims for compensation in respect of accidents involving the death of, or bodily injury to, persons arising out of the use of motor vehicles, or damages to any property of a third party so arising, or both.	None
Explanation  For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the expression claims for compensation in respect of accidents involving the death of or bodily injury to persons arising out of the use of motor vehicles includes claims for compensation under Section 140 (and section 163A).	None
From the provisions quoted above, it is clear that a claim under Section 166 covers cases of all kinds of bodily injuries or damage to the property of third party or both.	Reasoning
Under the explanation to subSection 1 of Section 165 it has been indicated that the provision includes the claims for compensation under Section 140 and Section 163A	Reasoning
but it is nowhere provided that the amount of compensation is to be assessed or calculated according to the second Schedule.	Reasoning
On the other hand, Section 168 provides the key leading to determination of amount of compensation under Section 166 of the Act.	Reasoning
The relevant part of Section 168 reads as under Award of the Claims Tribunal.  	None
On receipt of an application for compensation made under section 166, the Claims Tribunal shall, after giving notice of the application to the insurer and after giving the parties (including the insurer) an opportunity of being heard, hold an inquiry into the claim, or, as the case may be, each of the claims and, subject to the provisions of section 162 may make an award an award determining the amount of compensation which appears to it to be just and specifying the person or persons to whom compensation shall be paid and in making the award the Claims Tribunal shall specify the amount which shall be paid by the insurer or owner or driver of the vehicle involved in the accident or by all or any of them, as the case may beProvided that where such application makes a claim for compensation under section 140 in respect of the death or permanent disablement of any person, such claim and any other claim (whether made in such application or otherwise) for compensation in respect of such death or permanent disablement shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of Chapter X.(2)	None
The Claims Tribunal shall arrange to deliver copies of the award to the parties concerned expeditiously and in any case within a period of fifteen days from the date of the award.(3) When an award is made under this section, the person who is required to pay any amount in terms of such award shall, within thirty days of the date of announcing the award by the Claims Tribunal, deposit the entire amount awarded in such manner as the Claims Tribunal may direct.	None
It thus makes it clear that it is for the Tribunal to arrive at an amount of compensation, which it may consider to be just in the facts and circumstances of the case.	Reasoning
This Court however has been of the view that structured formula as provided under the Second Schedule be a safe guide to calculate the amount of just compensation.	Reasoning
Division though permissible, may only be resorted to for some special reasons to do so.	Reasoning
So far structured formula is concerned, it provides for a maximum multiplier of 18.	Reasoning
The application of the multiplier depends upon the age of the deceased, age of his dependents, number of his dependents, the amount of dependency etc.	Reasoning
Again we find that the structured formula relates to victim whose income is up to a sum of Rs. 40,000/ per annum.	Reasoning
It may be clarified that in the present case, it is not in dispute that the multiplier method, which is accepted and prevalent method, would be applicable and has been applied.	Reasoning
The question of setting apart 1/3rd of the income on account of expenditure on the self by the deceased is also not in dispute, i.e. to say that the amount of multiplicand and shall be the 2/3rd of annual income of the deceased.	Reasoning
The annual income of the deceased, as found by the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench namely 3,39445 is also not in dispute, nor the amount of dependency 2,26297 US Dollars.	Reasoning
The only dispute is about application of 13 as multiplier as applied by a Division Bench of the High Court following the Second Schedule to the Act.	None
We may refer to the decision reported in 1994 (2) SCC 176 (General Manager, Kerala State Road Transport Corporation, Trivandrum vs. Susamma Thomas (Mrs.) and others.	None
In this case while considering the law on the subject, it was observed in para 13 of the report as follows The choice of the multiplier is determined by the age of the deceased (or that of the claimants whichever is higher) and by the calculation as to what capital sum, if invested at a rate of interest appropriate to a stable economy, would yield the multiplicand by way of annual interest.	None
In ascertaining this, regard should also be had to the fact that ultimately the capital sum should also be consumed up over the period of which the dependency is expected to last.	None
It was reiterated in para 16 that the multiplier method is logically sound and legally well established as compared to other methods indicated in the other decisions in which different methods of computation was applied.	Reasoning
It was observed that those cases cannot be said to have laid any principle of computation of compensation.	Reasoning
The Court then further observes as follows The proper method of computation is the multiplier method.	None
Any departure except in exceptional and extraordinary cases, would introduce inconsistency of principle, lack of uniformity and an element of unpredictability for the assessment of compensation.	None
Some judgments of the High Courts have justified a departure from the multiplier method on the ground that Section 110B of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 in so far as it envisages the compensation to be just the statutory determination of a just compensation would unshackle the exercise from any rigid formula.	None
It must be borne in mind that the multiplier method is the accepted method of ensuring a just compensation which, will make for uniformity and certainty of the awards.	None
We disapprove these decisions of the High Courts, which have taken a contrary view.	None
We indicate that the multiplier method is the appropriate method, a departure from which can only be justified in rare and extraordinary circumstances and very exceptional cases.	None
In another decisions reported in 1996(4) SCC page 362 UP State Road Transport Corporation and Others vs. Trilok Chand and Others.	None
The view taken in the case of Susamma Thomas (supra) has been reiterated.	None
It has been held that in the case of Susamma Thomas maximum multiplier which could be applied was found to be 16 which according to this case can now be up to 18, in view of the Second Schedule.	None
This part of the judgment has also been particular relied upon by the learned counsel for the claimants.	None
The Court has also agreed with the observations made in the case of Susamma Thomas that there should be no departure from the multiplier method, particularly on the ground of awarding just compensation, as it was provided under Section 110(B) of the Motor Vehicles Act 1939 corresponding to the present Section 168 of the Motor Vehicles Act 1988.	None
It is further observed that multiplier method is accepted method for determining just compensation, which also brings about uniformity and certainty of award.	None
In paragraph 18 it has however, been observed about Second Schedule that neither the Tribunals nor the Court can go by the ready recknor, it can only be used as guide.	None
The Court has emphasized that in no case a multiplier should exceed 18 years purchase factor.	None
It is however, observed as follows It can only be used as a guide.	None
Besides the selection of multiplier, cannot in all cases be solely dependent on the age of the deceased.	None
For example, if the deceased, a bachelor, dies at the age of 15 and his dependents are his parents, age of the parents would also be relevant in the choice of multiplier.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
What thus emerges from the above decisions is that the Court must adhere to the system of multiplier in arriving at the proper amount of compensation, and also with a view to maintain uniformity and certainty.	None
Use of higher multiplier has been deprecated and it is emphasized that it can not exceed 18.	None
The multiplier, as would be evident from the observations quoted earlier, may differ in the peculiar facts and circumstances of a particular case as according to the example cited where bachelor dies at the age of 45, the age of his dependent parents may be relevant for selecting a proper multiplier.	None
Meaning thereby that a multiplier less than that what is provided in the schedule could be applied in special facts and circumstances of a case.	None
In the later cases also this Court has taken the same view that multiplier system is more appropriate and proper method for calculating the amount of compensation.	None
In 2001(8)	None
SCC 197 Lata Wadhwa and Others vs. State of Bihar and Others may be referred to.	None
Decision in the case of Sushamma Thomas (supra) and other English decisions considered in the judgments referred earlier namely, Devis vs. Tailor 1997 AC 207, Devis vs. Paul Duffryn Associated Limited, 1942 (1) All Er. 657 (HL).	None
Malleett vs. Mc Monagle 1970 AC 166 have been referred to.	None
In Jyoti Kaul and Others vs. State of Madhya Pradesh JT 2000 (7 ) SC page 367  this Court again referring, to the decision in the case of Susamma Thomas (supra) reiterated that multiplier system should be applied for the purposes of calculation of amount of compensation.	None
It has also been observed that the question as to what multiplier should be applied would depend upon various facts and circumstances of the case, hence the multiplier may change to some degree.	None
In the case in hand it is amply clear that it is not the case of any party that proper method of computing the amount of compensation, namely the multiplier method has not been applied.	Reasoning
We have already seen that in the decisions referred to, in the earlier part of this judgment it is clearly stated that except in very rare cases, multiplier system should not be deviated from.	Reasoning
The other methods, which were in vogue prior to introduction of multiplier system have been held to be no more good system.	Reasoning
The choice of multiplier may differ to some degree as observed in the case of Jyoti Kaul (supra) depending upon various facts and circumstances of the case.	Reasoning
Though, normally the multiplier as indicated in 2nd schedule should be applied as it is as found to be a safe guide for the purpose of calculation of amount of compensation.	None
The Tribunal had applied the multiplier of 7, which obviously was very low.	None
While applying the multiplier of 7, the Tribunal has observed that it had taken into consideration the age of the deceased and the yield, which, would have come by way of interest on the amount of compensation.	None
The Tribunal though had also discussed that the two daughters of the deceased were age of 19 and 17 years and the age of son was 13 years, parents of the deceased were 69/73 years.	None
The Tribunal was of the view that period of dependency may not be long for the children.	None
Then in consideration of the fact that amount awarded by applying multiplier of 7 would yield an interest of about 87,000 US Dollars if invested at the rate of 12 per annum.	None
The learned Single Judge of the High Court considering the age of the deceased and his dependents and the provisions of the Second Schedule and the decision of this Court in the case of Trilok Chand (supra) took the view that the application of multiplier of 10 would be appropriate in the present case.	None
The Division Bench in appeal has laid much stress on the fact that according to the decision in Susamma Thomas and Trilok Chand (supra) there should not be any deviation in the method of working out the amount of compensation applying multiplier method.	None
There is nothing wrong in the statement of above propositions as indicated by the Division Bench.	None
Different method can be resorted to only in rare and exceptional cases but the learned Single Judge had applied only multiplier method and noneelse, however looking to the facts and circumstances of the case, applied the multiplier of 10 instead of 13 as provided for the victims of the age group of deceased as in this case between 45 to 50 years.	None
It is true as also noticed by the High Court that the 2nd Schedule should be taken as a guide, but it does not mean that no deviation in the figure of multiplier itself, would be permissible in any case whatsoever.	None
Normally, Second Schedule may provide a guide for application of multiplier but for valid and proper reasons, different multiplier can be applied, indeed not exceeding 18 in any case on the upper side.	Reasoning
As indicated in the case of Susamma Thomas (supra) itself the Court gave an example of a situation where the age of the victim may be 45 years, but who may be a bachelor with his parents alone as dependents, obviously, meaning thereby that lesser multiplier could be applied in such a case.	Reasoning
By applying a multiplier other than the schedule multiplier does not mean that any method other than multiplier method has been applied.	Reasoning
For some special reasons some deviation from the scheduled multiplier can be made.17.	Reasoning
In the present case we find that the parents of the deceased were 69/73 years.	Reasoning
Two daughters were age 17 and 19 years.	Reasoning
Main question, which strikes to us in this case is that in the given circumstances the amount of multiplicant also assumes relevance.	Reasoning
The total amount of dependency as found by the learned Single Judge and also rightly upheld by the Division Bench comes to 226297 Dollars.	Reasoning
Applying multiplier of 10, the amount with interest and the conversion rate of Rs. 47/, comes to Rs. 10.38 crores and with multiplier of 13 at the conversion rate of Rs.	Reasoning
30/ the amount came to Rs. 16.12 crores with interest.	None
These amounts are huge indeed.	Reasoning
Looking to the Indian economy, fiscal and financial situation, the amount is certainly a fabulous amount though in the background of American conditions it may not be so.	Reasoning
Therefore, where there is no much of disparity in the economic conditions and affluence of the two places viz.	Reasoning
the place to which the victim belongs and the place where the compensation is to be paid, a golden balance must be struck somewhere, to arrive at a reasonable and fair mesne.	Reasoning
Looking by the Indian standards they may not be much too overcompensated and similarly not very much under compensated as well, in the background of the country where most of the dependent beneficiaries reside.	Reasoning
Two of the dependents namely, parents aged 69/73 years live in India, but four of them are in the United States.	Reasoning
Shri Soli J. Sorabjee submitted that the amount of multiplicand shall surely be relevant and in case it is a high amount, a lower multiplier can appropriately be applied.	Reasoning
We find force in this submission.	Reasoning
Considering all the facts and factors an indicated above, to us it appears that application of multiplier of 7 is definitely on the lower side.	Reasoning
Some deviation in the figure of multiplier would not mean that there may be a wide different between the multiplier applied and the scheduled multiplier which in this case is 13.	Reasoning
The difference between 7 and 13 is too wide.	Reasoning
As observed earlier, looking to the high amount of multiplicand and the ages of the dependents and the fact that parents are residing in India, in our view application of multiplier of 10 would be reasonable and would provide a fair compensation i.e. a purchased factor of 10 years.	Reasoning
We accordingly hold that multiplier of 10 as applied by the learned Single Judge should be restored instead of multiplier of 13 as applied by the Division Bench.	Reasoning
We find no force in the submission made on behalf of the claimants that in no circumstances the amount of multiplicand would be a relevant consideration for application of appropriate multiplier.	Reasoning
We have already given our reasons in the discussion held above.	None
The court can not be totally oblivion to the realities.	None
The 2nd Schedule while prescribing the multiplier, had maximum income of Rs.40,000/ p.a.	None
in mind, but it is considered to be a safe guide for applying prescribed multiplier in cases of higher income also but in cases where the gap in income is so wide as in the present case income is 2,26,297, in such a situation, it can not be said that some deviation in the multiplier, would be impermissible.	None
Therefore, a deviation from applying the multiplier as provided in the 2nd Schedule may have to be made in this case.	None
Apart from factors indicated earlier the amount of multiplicand also becomes a factor to be taken into account which in this case comes on 226197 that is to say an amount of around Rs.68 lacs per annum by converting it at the of Rs.30.	None
By Indian standards it is certainly a high amount.	None
Therefore, for the purposes of fair compensations, a lesser multiplier can be applied to a heavy amount of multiplicand.	None
A deviation would be reasonably permissible in figure of multiplier even according to the observations made in the case of Susamma Thomas where a specific example was given about a person dying at the age of 45 leaving no heirs being a bachelor except his parents.	None
The purpose to compensate the dependents of the victims is that they may not be suddenly deprived of source of their maintenance and as far as possible they may be provided with the means as were available to them before the accident took place.	None
It will be just and fair compensation.	None
But in cases where the amount of compensation may go much higher than the amount providing the same amenities, comforts and facilities and also and the way of life, in such circumstances also it may be a case where, while applying the multiplier system, the lesser multiplier may be applied.	None
In such cases amount of multiplicand becomes relevant.	None
The intention is not to over compensate.	None
We therefore, hold that ordinarily while awarding compensation, the provisions contained in the Second Schedule may be taken as a guide including the multiplier, but there may arise some cases, as one in hand, which may fall in the category having special feature or facts calling for deviation from the multiplier usually applicable.	None
Now we come to the next point raised by Mr. Soli J. Sorabjee, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Insurance Company, about deductions, from the amount of compensation as received by the claimants on account of social security system.	None
In this connection, it has been submitted that admittedly, the claimants had received 2,50,000 Dollars on account of life insurance policy of the deceased.	None
Apart from that, Patricia Mahajan had also received unemployment allowance for a period of 8 of 9 months as well as two children out of the three.	None
It may be noted here that the Tribunal had deducted the said amount, but it was disallowed by the learned Single Judge and upheld by the Division Bench.	None
Mr. Soli J. Sorabji submitted that while assessing the amount of compensation, the benefits which have accrued to the claimants by reason of death must also be taken into account.	Arguments of Petitioner
A kind of balancing of losses and the gains or benefit by by reason of death would be necessary.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of the above contention he has referred to a decision reported in 1962 (1) SCR 929 Gobald Motors Service Limited vs. R.M.K. Veluswami and Others.	Arguments of Petitioner
It in a decision by three judge Bench of this Court, and at page 938 the observations made by the House of Lords in Davies vs. Powell Duffryn Associated Collieries Ltd. (1942 AC page 601) has been quoted which reads as follows The general rule which has always prevailed in regard to the assessment of damages under the Fatal Accidents Acts is well settled, namely, that any benefit accruing to a dependant by reason of the relevant death must be taken into account.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under those Acts the balance of loss and gain to a dependant by the death must be ascertained, the position of each dependant being considered separately.	Arguments of Petitioner
To further elaborate the above proposition, observations made by Lord Wright in Devies case (supra) have also been quoted.	None
It reads as follows The damages are to be based on the reasonable expectation of pecuniary benefit of benefit reducible to money value.	None
In assessing the damages all circumstances which may be legitimately placed in diminution of the damages must be considered The actual pecuniary loss of each individual entitled to sue can only be ascertained by balancing, on the one hand, the loss to him of the future pecuniary benefit, and on the other, any pecuniary advantage which from whatever source comes to him by reason of the death.	None
The learned counsel laid stress on the last part of observation made to the effect that  for the purposes of balancing losses and gains any pecuniary advantage which from whatever source come to them, has to be considered.	None
It is submitted in Gobalds case the principle of Devies Case was referred and taken into consideration.	None
Reliance has also been placed on a decision reported in 1971(1) SCC page 785 M s. Shekhupura Transport Co. Ltd. vs. Northern India Transport Company particularly to the observations made by the Court in paragraph 6 of the judgment where the principle in the case of Gobalds Motor (supra) has been reiterated.	None
In this connection learned counsel for the Insurance Company has also drawn our attention to the decision in the case of Susamma Thomas (supra) particularly on paragraph 8 of the report, where it is observed that the principle in the case of Devies vs. Powell was adopted, in the case of Gobald Motros (supra).	None
It is thus submitted that principle of balancing of loss and gains, so as to arrive at a just and fair amount of compensation has been accepted by this Court as well.	None
On behalf of the Insurance Company 1988(3)	None
All ER.	None
870 Hodgson vs. Trapp and another has been relied in which our attention has particularly been drawn to the following observations made at page 873 the basic rule is that it is the net consequential loss and expense which the Court must measure, if, in consequence of the injuries sustained, the plaintiff has enjoyed receipts to which he would not otherwise have been entitled, prima facie, those receipts are to be set against the aggregate of the plaintiffs losses and expenses in arriving at the measure of his damages.	None
All this is elementary and has been said over and over again.	None
To this basic rule there are, of course, certain well established, though not always precisely defined and delineated, exceptions.	None
But the Courts are, I think, sometimes in danger, in seeking to explore the rationale of the exceptions, of forgetting that they are exceptions.	None
It is the rule which is fundamental and axiomatic and exceptions to it which are only to be admitted on grounds which clearly justify their treatment as such.	None
From the above passage it is clear that the deductions are admissible from the amount of compensation in case the claimant receives the benefit as a consequences of injuries sustained, which otherwise he would not have been entitled to.	Reasoning
It does not cover cases where the payment received is not dependent upon an injury sustained on meeting with an accident.	Reasoning
The other observation to which our attention has been drawn at Page 876 plassitam F also does not help the contention raised on behalf of the Insurance Company for deduction of amounts in the present case.	Reasoning
The Court was considering a situation where due to the injuries received the victim was claiming cost of care necessary in future in respect of which statutory provision, provided for attendants allowance.	Reasoning
It was found that the statutory benefit and the damages claimed were designed to meet the identical expenses.	Reasoning
This is however not so, at least not shown, to be so in the case in hand.	Reasoning
Shri Soli J. Sorabjee has also made references from ALR Digests under the heading Damages, From American Law Report 84 ALR2d.	Arguments of Petitioner
In some cases, depending upon the provisions of the Act, it was held that the amount of compensation for death by wrongful act should not be diminished on receipt of social security benefit.	Arguments of Petitioner
In general, such payments have been regarded as being in the same category as amount paid to a surviving beneficiary on a life or casualty insurance policy or as a pension, which, it is well settled, are not to be considered in mitigating all damages sustained as a result of tortious death.	Arguments of Petitioner
(It is extracted from page 765 with reference to 16 Am Jur, Death 222 and 223).	Arguments of Petitioner
In some cases a different view was taken by the American Courts.	Arguments of Petitioner
But it all depended upon the terms of the provisions of the policies.	Arguments of Petitioner
A reference was also made to the report of the Royal Commission on civil liability and compensation for personal injury under the Chairmanship of Lord Pearson Volume1	None
At page 106 and 107 it recommended for taking into account the benefits which may be deducted from the amount of damages payable to the claimants.	None
At page 109 it has recommended as follows Benefits to be offset481We agree with the principle in the 1948 Acts that the benefits deducted should be limited to those payable to the plaintiff as a result of injury for which damages are awarded.	None
In practice, this means that such benefits as state retirement pensions, child benefits and maternity benefits should be disregarded.482We recommend that the full value of social security benefits payable to an injured person or his dependents as a result of an injury for which damages are awarded should be deducted in assessment of damages.	None
And at page 118 under para 537 our attention has also been drawn to a passage which reads as under Under the present law in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, pecuniary benefits derived by a dependant of a deceased person from his estate are taken into account in assessing damages under the Fatal Accidents Acts.	None
Usually, any deduction is unimportant because, if the sum would have been paid to the plaintiff in any event in the future (for example, under a will), it is not deducted in full.	None
Instead, an allowance may be made for accelerated payment and certainty of receipt.	None
Nor does the rule apply to payments under a life insurance policy or to the use of a home or property.	None
A full deduction is, however, made where the dependant receives a sum awarded to the estate of the deceased for non pecuniary loss.	None
A perusal of the recommendations of the Royal Commission headed by Lord Pearson as referred to and relied upon on behalf of the Insurance Company also does not indicate that, all kinds of receipts or benefits as may be payable to the claimants from whatever source and under whatever statutory provisions have to be deducted.	Reasoning
The recommendations made specific mention about non deductibility of amount of pension the benefit on account of Life Insurance, Child benefit and maternity benefit etc.	Reasoning
It is also specifically provided under para 482 quoted above that the recommendation is for deducting full value of social security benefits payable as a result of injury for which damages are awarded.	Reasoning
That is to say benefits not related to the injury are not to be taken into account for deductions.	Reasoning
A reference to Mac Grager on damages 16 Edition has also been made in relation to deduction of social security benefits.	None
Our attention is drawn to page 1065 paragraph 1628 and paragraph 642 at page 1071 where reference of the decision in Hodgson case (supra) has been made.	None
It is stated that unless receipts fell within one of the very few exceptions to the basic rules, all benefits received as a result of injuries should now be deductible in order to achieve the proper compensation, and not over compensation of the plaintiff.	None
It is further observed that payments by way of social security are not exceptional for these purposes according to the Hodgsons case.	None
Shri Soli J. Sorabjee, learned senior counsel also referred to Encyclopedia America page 186 (I).	Arguments of Petitioner
There seems to be social security Act 1935 in force in America, providing for different kinds of social security.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also indicated how the social security find is constituted and utilized for payments under the social security for unemployed, dependent children, to the needy aged and to the disabled people etc.	Arguments of Petitioner
Tax is also realizable contributing into social security fund.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri P.P. Rao, learned senior counsel appearing for the claimants has submitted that only such amount received on account of social security can be deducted, which becomes payable by reason of death by accident and not otherwise.	Arguments of Respondent
We find force in the submissions of the learned counsel on this score.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted that the unemployment allowance or other such social security benefit under the social security Act etc. are not necessarily dependant upon the accidental death of the bread earner.	Arguments of Respondent
Such allowances are payable otherwise even though the victim may not have died and may be still alive.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, such payments which are unconnected and unrelated with the event of an accident resulting in injury or death, have to be disregarded for the purposes of deduction from the amount of damages.	Arguments of Respondent
He has also referred to some American decisions one of them is 230 S.O. 2(d)(1) 1968 Flaapp Lexis 5073 Marc A. ONeal Appealle	Arguments of Respondent
No. H303, The Court of Appeals Florida first Districts the opinion of judge Carrol was countered by the other judges and the Chief Justice.	Arguments of Respondent
He has drawn our attention to the following observation Stated broadly the general Rule founded upon decisional law as well as logic and justice seems to be that a dependent can not reduce the damages for which there was otherwise be liable by showing that the plaintiff received compensation from a Collateral source such as benefits received from welfare and pension funds.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the claimants also submits that the High Court has rightly placed reliance upon a decision of this Court reported in 1999(1) SCC page 19 Helen Rebellos case.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted that this Court has rightly made a distinction between the claims under the Fatal Accidents Act and the Motor Vehicles Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Both parties have relied upon and referred to the above decision.	Arguments of Respondent
The main question for consideration of the Court was in respect to the amount of Life Insurance as to whether the same was to be deducted from the amount of compensation payable to the claimants or not.33.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri P.P. Rao, learned counsel appearing for the claimants submitted that the scope of the provisions relating to award of compensation under the Motor Vehicles Act is wider as compared to the provisions of the Fatal Accident Acts.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further indicated that the Gobalds case (supra) is a case under the Fatal Accident Acts.	Arguments of Respondent
For the above contention he has relied upon the observation made in the Rebellos case.	Arguments of Respondent
It has also been submitted that only such benefits, which accrued to the claimants by reason of death, occurred due to an accident and not otherwise, can be deducted.	Arguments of Respondent
Apart from drawing distinction between the scope of provisions of the two Acts namely, Motor Vehicles Act and the Fatal Accident Act, this Court in the Helen Rebellos case accepted the argument that amount of insurance policies would be payable to the insured, the death may be accidental or otherwise, and even where the death may not occur the amount will be payable on its maturity.	Arguments of Respondent
The insured chooses to have insurance policy and he keeps on paying the premium for the same, during all the time till maturity or his death.	Arguments of Respondent
It has been held that such a pecuniary benefit by reason of death would not be such as may be deductible from the amount of compensation.	Arguments of Respondent
It may be useful to quote paragraph 33 of the decisions which reads as under Thus, it would not include that which the claimant receives on account of other forms of deaths, whch he would have received even apart from accidental death.	None
Thus, such pecuniary advantage would have no corelation to the accidental death for which compensation is computed.	None
Any amount received or receivable not only on account of the accidental death but that which would have come to the claimant even otherwise, could not be construed to be the pecuniary advantage, liable for deduction.	None
However, where the employer insures his employee, as against injury or death arising out of an accident, any amount received out of such insurance on the happening of such incident may be an amount liable for deduction.	None
However, our legislature has taken note of such contingency through the proviso of Section 95.	None
Under it the liability of the insurer is excluded in respect of injury or death, arising out of and in the course of employment of an employee.	None
The Court has observed in the last part of the para 34	None
How can an amount of loss and gains of all one contract be made applicable to the loss and gain of an other contract.	None
Similarly, how an amount receivable under a statute has any corelation with an amount earned by an individual.	None
Principle of loss and gain has to be on the same line within the same sphere, of course, subject to the contract to the contrary or any provisions of law.	None
The court has further referred to receipts of Provident Fund which is a deferred payment out of contribution made by an employee during tenure of his evidence Such an amount is payable irrespective of accidental death of the employee.	None
The same is the position relating to family pension.	None
There is no corelation between the compensation payable on account of accidental death and the amounts receivable irrespective of such accidental death which otherwise in the normal course one would be entitled to receive.	None
This Court for taking the above view has also referred to certain English decisions as discussed in paragraph 18 of the judgment.	None
We are in full agreement with the observations made in the case of Helen Rebello (supra) that principle of balancing between losses and gains, by reason of death, to arrive at amount of compensation is a general rule, but what is more important is that such receipts by the claimants must have some corelation with the accidental death by reason of which alone the claimants have received the amounts.	Reasoning
We do not think it would be necessary for us to go into the question of distinction made between the provisions of the Fatal Accident Act and the Motor Vehicles Act.	Reasoning
According to the decisions referred to in the earlier part of this Judgment, it is clear that amount on account of social security as may have been received must have nexus of relation with the accidental injury or death, so far to be deductible from the amount of compensation.	Reasoning
There must be some corelation between the amount received and the accidental death or it may be in the same sphere, absence the amount received shall not be deducted from the amount of compensation.	Reasoning
Thus the amount received on account of insurance policy of the deceased cannot be deducted from the amount compensation though no doubt the receipt of the insurance amount is accelerated due to premature death of the insured.	Reasoning
So far other items in respect of which learned counsel for the Insurance Company has vehemently urged for example some allowance paid to the children and Mrs. Patricia Mahajan under the social security system no corelation of those receipts with the accidental death has been shows much less established.	Reasoning
Apart from the fact that contribution comes from different sources for constituting the fund out of which, payment on account of social security system is made one of the constituent of found is tax which is deducted from income for the purpose.	Reasoning
We feel that the High Court has rightly disallowed any deduction on account of receipts under the Insurance Policy and other receipts under social security system which the claimant would have also otherwise entitled to receive irrespective of accidental death of Dr. Mahajan.	Reasoning
If the proposition receipts from whatever source is interpreted so widely that it may cover all the receipts, which may come into the hands of the claimants, in view of the mere death of the victim, it would only defeat the purpose of the Act providing for just compensation on account of accidental death.	Reasoning
Such gains may be on account of savings or other investment etc. made by the deceased would not go to the benefit of wrong doer and the claimant should not be left worse of, if he had never taken an Insurance Policy or had not made investments for future returns.37.	Reasoning
We therefore, do not allow any deduction as pressed by the Insurance Company on account of receipts of Insurance Policy and social security benefits received by the claimants.	Reasoning
We may now pass on to the next question of rate of interest payable on the amount of compensation.	None
It has been awarded at the rate of 12.	None
Learned senior counsel for the respondent Shri P.P. Rao took an objection that the question relating to rate of interest was not under challenge before the High Court.	Reasoning
He has referred to the observations made by the Divisions Bench in its judgment to the effect in any case, the rate of interest is not in dispute before us.	Reasoning
Thereafter it is observed that the Tribunal had awarded interest 12 per annum which was maintained by the learned Single Judge.	Reasoning
Consequently, the Division Bench also did not think it appropriate to interfere with the award of interest 12 per annum.	Reasoning
It is however refuted by the learned counsel for the Insurance Company that the rate of interest was not in dispute.	Reasoning
The learned counsel for the respondent has however submitted that the factual position as recorded by the Court that the rate of interest was not in dispute before the Court, should not be allowed to be disputed and it should be treated conclusive of the fact that the rate of interest was not in dispute before the Division Bench.	Reasoning
He has in support of his contention referred to decision of this Court, reported in (1982 2 S.C.C. 463  State of Maharashtra versus Ramdas Shrinivas Nayak and another and 1992 Supp.	Reasoning
(1) S.C.C. Apar (P) Ltd. and another versus Union of India and others in which it has been held a that concession made by a party and an observation made to that effect in the judgment, cannot be allowed to be denied.	Reasoning
Only the Court which recorded the statement itself was competent to rectify the error if the Court recording the statement was approached to consider the matter without delay.	Reasoning
The position as indicated in the abovenoted decisions is undoubtedly correct and cannot be doubted.	None
But in certain cases where a stay remark or observation made by the Court which is not very clear and is vague, and a different picture emerges from other part of judgment it may be open for this Court to ascertain to correct position on the basis of totality of the observations made in the judgment itself.	Reasoning
In that light we may see the observations of the Division Bench in its judgment.	Reasoning
It is nowhere indicated that the counsel appearing for the Insurance Company had made any statement conceding the rate of interest nor it is indicated how the concession was made.	Reasoning
Then the observation that the rate of interest was not in dispute before the Court may only lead to an inference that the rate of interest was not disputed before the Court in the arguments advanced on behalf of the party concerned.	Reasoning
But we, on the other hand find that, on behalf of the Insurance Company, the learned counsel had cited the decisions to indicate that the lower rate of interest was awarded in certain decisions, which had been relied upon by him.	Reasoning
This is enough to indicate that the rate of interest was actually disputed.	Reasoning
More than one case, a reference of which has been made in the judgment of the Division Bench itself, has been relied upon by the counsel for the Insurance Company for reducing the rate of interest.	None
The Division Bench in its judgment observed as follows It has, however, also been brought to our notice that in A. Rovert vs. United Insurance Co. Ltd. (1999) 8 S.C.C. 228 the Supreme Court awarded interest at 6 from the date of the application till actual payment to the claimant.	None
In Kanshnuma Begum (Smt.)	None
and others versus United Insurance Co. Ltd. (2001) 2 S.C.C. 9 this Court awarded interest at the rate of 9 per annum.	None
Thereafter the observations made in the case of Kanshnuma Begum (Supra) have been quoted.	None
After so much discussion on the point of rate of interest and after mentioning the decisions relied upon by both the sides on their part, it could not be said that rate of interest was not in dispute before the Court.	Reasoning
As indicated earlier the observation is not indicated to have been made in reference to any statement of the counsel for the party nor it comes out that the respective parties may not have advanced arguments for maintaining the rate of interest as awarded and the other party for reducing the rate of interest.	Reasoning
In the light of the position indicated above, we do not think it will be possible to shut out the Insurance Company from urging before us that lesser rate of interest should have been awarded in place of 12 as awarded by the High Court.	Reasoning
Before us also, learned counsel for the Insurance Company has referred the decision of this Court reported in 1999 (8) S.C.C. 226  A Robert versus Insurance Company Limited to indicate that interest at the rate of 6 was awarded in that case.	Reasoning
Another case cited awarding 6 interest is reported in 2001 A.C.C. 540, particularly paragraph 35 has been referred.	Reasoning
1970	Reasoning
All ER 1202  Jefford and another versus Gee has also been referred to indicate that the amount awarded is on account of loss of future earning whereas the interest is payable on being kept out of the money.	None
It is therefore submitted that the interest may not be payable on the loss of future earning.	None
Another decision which has been referred to is reported in (1995) 1 S.C.C. 551  R.D. Hattangadi versus Pest Control (India) Pvt. Ltd. and others, more particularly Para 18 of the judgment where it has been held that no interest is awardable on the amount of future expenditure.	Reasoning
It is further observed It need nor be pointed out that interest is to be paid over the amount which has become payable on the date of award and not which is to be paid for expenditures to be incurred in future	Reasoning
But it is not indicated by the learned counsel for the appellant Insurance Company as to which is that amount out of the amount awarded which is on account of future expenditure yet to be incurred by the claimants.	Reasoning
The interest is to be awarded on the amount which is payable on the date of the award.	Reasoning
It is also to be noted that in some cases interest at the rate of 6 was awarded.	Reasoning
This case however does not help the appellant Insurance Company.	Reasoning
The next case which has been cited is reported in 2001 (2) S.C.C. 9  Kaushnuma Begum (Smt.)	Reasoning
and others versus New India Assurance Company Ltd.	Reasoning
In this case interest at the rate of 9 was awarded.	None
The reason indicated in Paragraph 24 of the Judgment, we quote hereunder Now, we have to fix up the rate of interest, Section 171 of the MV Act empowers the Tribunal to direct that in addition to the amount of compensation simple interest shall also be paid at such rate and from such date not earlier than the date of making the claim as may be specified in this behalf.	None
Earlier.	None
12 was found to be the reasonable rate of simple interest.	None
With a change in enconomy and the policy of Reserve Bank of India the interest rate has been lowered.	None
The nationalized banks are now granting interest at the rate of 9 on fixed deposit for one year.	None
We, therefore, direct that the compensation amount fixed hereinbefore shall bear interest at the rate of 9 per annum from the date of the claim made by the appellants In our view the reason indicated in the case of Kaushnuma Begum (supra) is a valid reason and it may be noticed that the rate of interest is already on the decline.	None
We therefore, reduce the rate of interest to 9 in place of 12 as awarded by the High Court.40.	Reasoning
The next point which remains to be considered is in relation to the exchange rate of the Dollar in Rupee.	Issue
The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal allowed the exchange rate of the Dollar at Rs.30.	Reasoning
The learned Single Judge allowed it at the then current rate of Rs.47.	Reasoning
The Division Bench restored the exchange rate at Rs. 30 observing that the matter was closed since the claimants had withdrawn the amount as awarded by the Tribunal and the matter was now on the second stage relating to enhanced amount of compensation.	Reasoning
Shri P.P. Rao, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants has vehemently urged that it is only the current rate which should be allowed since the value of the Rupee has fallen in exchange of Dollar after the application for claim was made and award was given.	Reasoning
Therefore, the amount of Rupees as arrived at the exchange rate of Rs.47 should be allowed.	Reasoning
In connection with his submission about rate of conversion, a reference to a case reported in 1984 Supp.	Reasoning
SCC 263  Oil and Natural Gas Commission versus Forasal has been made.	Reasoning
This Court held that rate of conversion as on the date of passing of the decree should be taken on the basis of which conversion should be allowed.	Reasoning
We however find that the facts in that case are different.	Reasoning
According to the contract itself, a part of the payment was to be made in French currency.	Reasoning
The question then arose as to what rate of conversion should be allowed.	Reasoning
The Court was of the view that there would be three relevant dates of the purpose, namely, the date on which the amount became payable, the date of the filing of the suit and the date of the judgment and it was further held that it would be fairer to both the parties to take the latest of these dates, namely, the date of passing the decree as the relevant date for applying the conversion rate.	Reasoning
In the present case since the deceased was an American citizen, settled there and income accrued to him in America in terms of Dollars, details of income etc, have been given in Dollars but so far the prayer for passing a decree is concerned, it was for a a sum indicated in Rupees which figure was arrived at by the claimants applying Rs.30 as the conversion rate.	Reasoning
Therefore, in the present case there is no such dispute as to what rate of conversion was to be applied.	Reasoning
As a matter of fact, whatever rate may have been applied by claimants, the fact remains that the decree in terms of Rupees specified for a sum of Rs.54 crores was prayed for.	Reasoning
In terms of the prayer whatever amount in rupee was found to be payable to the claimants was decreed.	Reasoning
In the present case the exchange rate of Dollar against Rupee was relevant for the purpose of arriving at a fair assessment of the loss of the dependency of the claimants at the relevant time.	Reasoning
In such a situation we are of the view that no such question as in the case of Oil and Natural Gas Commission (supra) is involved.	Reasoning
The decree was for a definite sum in terms of Rupees, a part of which was found admissible which amount was decreed.	Reasoning
There is no occasion to convert the amount of decree in Rupees into Dollars applying Rs.30 as rate of conversion and then reconvert it in Rupees at the rate of Rs. 47.	Reasoning
The claimants cannot ask for more than what was prayed for in the claim petition.	Reasoning
We are therefore not inclined to accede to the request made for calculation of the amount of award at the conversion rate of Rs.47.41.	None
Shri T.R. Rajagopalan, learned senior counsel appearing for the Insurance Company in SLP (c) 20874/2001 preferred on the question of rash and negligent driving against the driver of the Troller advanced some arguments but we do not think that the findings of fact recorded by the Courts of fact namely the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal and upheld by the learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench can be reopened to reassess the evidence on the point.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the discussion held above, we partly allow the appeals of the Insurance Company (SLP c Nos. 20875 and 21858/2001) and set aside the part of the judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court by which it applied the multiplier of 13 in accordance with 2nd Schedule of the Motor Vehicles Act.	Decision
We restore the order of the learned Single Judge to the extent it applied the multiplier of 10.	Decision
The amount of compensation shall be calculated and be payable accordingly.	Decision
So far rate of interest on the enhanced amount is concerned, we set aside the order passed by the High Court awarding interest at the rate of 12 per annum and we reduce it to 9 per annum.	Decision
The appeal of the Insurance Company challenging the award against the finding of negligence (S.L.P. c No. 20874/2001) on the part of the driver of the Troller is dismissed.	Decision
So far the appeal of the claimants (SLP c No. 22304/2001) for applying the conversion rate at Rs. 47 is concerned, it is dismissed and the order passed by the Division Bench for applying conversion rate of Rs.30 is upheld.	Decision
The appeal for allowing the deduction on account of receipt of the sums received by the claimants on social security system is dismissed and the order passed by the High Court disallowing any deduction is upheld.43.	Decision
The Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal Tis Hazari, Delhi shall calculate the amount of compensation in accordance with the Judgment passed above that is to say it shall take the dependency amount as 226297 and shall apply the multiplier of 10.	Decision
The conversion rate shall be Rs.30.	Decision
The amount shall bear interest 9 per annum as awarded instead of 12.44.	Decision
Parties to bear their own costs.	Decision
