 B. Sinha, J. Appellants herein were prosecuted for commission of an offence under Sections 364/34, 302/34 and 201/34 of the Indian Penal Code for kidnapping and murdering two children, Abhishek and Heena, aged six and eight years respectively, of one Kamal Kishore.	Issue
They were sentenced to death.	Issue
A reference was made to the High Court under Section 366 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.2.	Issue
Appeals were preferred by Appellants also before the High Court.	Issue
By reason of the impugned judgment, the High Court while upholding the judgment and conviction opined that the case cannot be said to be a rarest of rare one meriting award of death penalty.4.	Facts
The children went to take private tuition in the house of one Pooja.	Facts
They were supposed to come back by 6.30 p.m. As they did not return, Kamal Kishore went to her house.	Facts
He was informed that the children had left her house at 6.15 p.m.	Facts
The children were continued to be searched.	Facts
He, however, came to know that one scooterist wearing trouser of black colour and shirt of white colour had taken his children on his scooter.	Facts
A First Information Report was lodged.	Facts
During investigation, the school bags and dead bodies of the children were recovered.	Facts
Appellant No. 1 herein is related to the complainant.	Facts
They belong to the same community.	Facts
They were neighbours.	Facts
They, however, said to be belonging to different unions of their community being that of washermen.5.	Facts
P.W4 is a child witness.	Facts
He is nephew of Appellant No.1.	Facts
They live in the same house.	Facts
He is said to have seen the children sitting on the scooter of Appellant No.1 herein.	Facts
Appellant No. 1 was also seen riding the scooter along with the children by PW15, who was a taxi driver.	Facts
Both the appellants furthermore went to the house of PW11, an advocate and the leader of their community and made an extrajudicial confession.	Facts
Extra judicial confession was also purported to have been made by them before the father of Appellant No.1 herein, who also got his statement recorded before the Magistrate under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	Facts
He, however, was not examined.	Facts
Appellant No.1 was arrested on the basis of the said extrajudicial confession.	Facts
He made disclosure statements leading to recoveries of clothes and tapes wherewith hands and legs of the deceased children were said to have been tied.6.	Facts
The prosecution in proving the charges against the appellants herein, inter alia, relied upon a purported letter received by the said Kamal Kishore wherein ransom was demanded.	Facts
It was found to be in the handwriting of Appellant No.2.	Facts
Mr. Mahabir Singh, the learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants, in support of the appeals would submit Evidence of PW4, Sahil, who was a child witness, could not have been believed particularly when (a) he was examined after 20 days (b) he identified the accused at the instance of PW11 and (c) he purported to have made the statement on the basis of a letter Ex. DI.2)	Arguments of Petitioner
Extrajudicial confession is a weak peace of evidence and the same having not been corroborated in material particulars, no reliance could be placed thereupon.3)	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court committed an illegality in relying upon the statement of the father of Appellant No.1 under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was not admissible in evidence.4) PW11, before whom the purported extrajudicial confession was made, having been called to the police station as also being a witness to the recovery should not have been relied upon.5)	Arguments of Petitioner
Delay having occurred in recording the statement of PW15, no reliance thereupon could have been placed.6) Investigating officer having fabricated a part of the records, no reliance could be placed upon the materials found on investigation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. D.P. Singh, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State, on the other hand, would submit Evidence of PW4 must be judged keeping in view the fact that he and Appellant No.1 were residing in the same house and as such he must have obliged his family members in making some statements in his favour.2) The letter Ex.D1 having been produced by the accused could not have formed the basis of his statement before the police after two years, as was suggested on behalf of the appellants to PW4.3)	Arguments of Respondent
PW15, Rajindra Kumar, being an independent witness, there is no reason as to why his statement, that he had seen Appellant No.1 in the company of the deceased children, should be disbelieved.4) Recoveries of tape and clothes and in particular the shirt and trouser belonging to Appellant No.1 point out to his guilt.5) Finger prints of the appellants were also found on the bottles and glasses which were recovered near the place from where the dead bodies were recovered also corroborates the prosecution case.6)	Arguments of Respondent
The letter demanding ransom was in the handwriting of Appellant No.2 which was proved by an handwriting expert, being Deputy Director, Documents, Forensic Science Laboratory, Chandigarh is also a pointer to their involvement.7) Evidence of Pooja, who examined herself as PW5, is also corroborative of the fact that she came to know that the victims sat on a scooter of a person whom they called as Chachu, which is admissible in evidence under Section 8 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872.8) Extrajudicial confession made before PW11, Rakesh Kumar Kanojia, who was a President of the Dhobi Maha Sabha, cannot be disbelieved, as both the appellants thought that he being an advocate could save them from the criminal case.	Arguments of Respondent
The prosecution case is based on circumstantial evidence.	Reasoning
Indisputably, charges can be proved on the basis of the circumstantial evidence, when direct evidence is not available.	Reasoning
It is wellsettled that in a case based on a circumstantial evidence, the prosecution must prove that within all human probabilities, the act must have been done by the accused.	Reasoning
It is, however, necessary for the courts to remember that there is a long gap between may be true and must be true.	Reasoning
Prosecution case is required to be covered by leading cogent, believable and credible evidence.	Reasoning
Whereas the court must raise a presumption that the accused is innocent and in the event two views are possible, one indicating to his guilt of the accused and the other to his innocence, the defence available to the accused should be accepted, but at the same time, the court must not reject the evidence of the prosecution, proceeding on the basis that they are false, not trustworthy, unreliable and made on flimsy grounds or only on the basis of surmises and conjectures.	Reasoning
The prosecution case, thus, must be judged in its entirety having regard to the totality of the circumstances.	Reasoning
The approach of the court should be an integrated one and not truncated or isolated.	Reasoning
The court should use the yardstick of probability and appreciate the intrinsic value of the evidence brought on records and analyze and assess the same objectively.	Reasoning
We would proceed on the wellknown principles in regard to appreciation of the circumstantial evidence which were noticed by the High Court in the following terms There must be a chain of evidence so far complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and it must be such as to show that within all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.2) Circumstantial evidence can be reasonably made the basis of an accused persons conviction if it is of such character that it is wholly inconsistent with the innocence of the accused and is consistent only with his guilt.3) There should be no missing links but it is not that everyone of the links must appear on the surface of the evidence, since some of these links may only be inferred from the proven facts.4)	None
On the availability of two inferences, the one in favour of the accused must be accepted.5) It cannot be said that prosecution must meet any and every hypothesis put forwarded by the accused however farfetched and fanciful it might be.	None
Nor does it mean that prosecution evidence must be rejected on the slightest doubt because the law permits rejection if the doubt is reasonable and not otherwise.	None
PW1 is Dr. Balbir Singh.	None
He conducted the postmortem examination.	None
It may not be necessary for us to deal with his deposition at length the homicidal nature of death of the victims being not in dispute.	None
PW2 is a formal witness.	None
PW3 is Kamal Kishore.	None
The statements made by him in the First Information Report for kidnapping and murder of his children have not been doubted.	None
He proved the letter received by him demanding ransom.	None
As noticed hereinbefore, the same was found to be in the handwriting of Appellant No.2.	None
Sahil Kumar (PW4), is the child witness, aged about 10 years.	None
He was examined by the learned Trial Judge at some length.	None
He was found to be capable of giving evidence.	None
He deposed that Appellant No.1 was his uncle being his fathers elder brother and they reside in the same house.	None
He categorically stated in his evidence that on 08.06.2000 he saw Heena and Abhishek sitting on the scooter which was driven by Appellant No.1.	None
He asserted that he had seen the scooter and could identify the same.	None
Even he gave the details of the place where the children sat on the scooter of Appellant No.1.	None
He categorically stated that Abhishek was reluctant to sit on the scooter but he saw Heena asking him to do so saying that Gangan was their uncle, whereupon Abhishek also sat thereon.	None
He also stated that Gagan was wearing a helmet.	None
The brother of Kamal Kishore also visited the house of Appellant No.1 with him wherein they found a friend of Gagan to be present.	None
PW4 left for Ambala on the next day.	None
He came back on 26.06.2000.	None
He accepted that he got his statement recorded before the Magistrate.	None
A document Ex.D1 was produced by the accused, which was shown to him, which according to him was a letter written by Rakesh Kanojia (PW11) and was given to him.	None
He alleged that the contents of the said letter was dictated by the investigating officer.	None
In his crossexamination, he reiterated his statement made in the examination in chief as also his statement made under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and in no uncertain terms stated that at about 6.15 p.m., he saw Gagan, Abhishek and Heena sitting on the scooter.	None
He, however, stated The face of the scooter driver was not visible due to the helmet.	None
I had given the name of Gagan as told by Rakesh Kanojia He denied the suggestion that he was tutored by the police.	None
He was sought to be crossexamined by the public prosecutor in view of the statement given by him, but for reasons best known to the court, the same was not permitted.	None
Ordinarily, we would not have accepted the statement of PW4, but his statement that he had deposed on the basis of Ex.D1 cannot be believed.	None
If Ex.D1 was a document which was prepared by the investigating officer, how it was produced by the accused counsel in crossexamination is beyond all comprehensions.	None
The learned Trial Judge made a comparison between the statements contained in Ex.D1 and those made under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure so as to find a large number of discrepancies therein, as would appear from paragraphs 105 and 106 of his judgment.	None
It is not contended that the same was not correct.	None
Thus, Ex. D1 cannot be a document which was prepared by Nirmal Singh at the instance of PW11, as suggested on behalf of the Appellants or otherwise.	None
How the said letter could be produced by the defence after two years is again beyond all comprehensions.	None
Even if we discard that part of the statement made by PW4, there is no reason as to why a part of his statement, namely, he was present when the children were taken by Gagan on his scooter, should be disbelieved or at least should not be taken into consideration for the purpose of corroboration.	None
He merely made a little retraction in his crossexamination.	None
His evidence, if read as a whole, inspires confidence.	None
It is well known that for certain purpose, the statement of even a hostile witness can be believed.	None
See State of U.P. v. Ramesh Prasad Misra and Another (1996) 10 SCC 360 .	None
We have, therefore, no hesitation in opining that Ex. D1 was not and could not have been written by Rajender Kumar Kanojia at the dictation of the investigating officer or otherwise.	None
To the aforementioned extent, we find force in Mr. Singhs contention.	None
PW15, Rajinder Kumar, is another witness who also last saw the victims sitting on the scooter of Appellant No.1.	None
On 08.06.2000, he had gone to the house of his partner Paramjit Singh, which is just near the place of occurrence, and had seen three children coming on foot after getting tuition.	None
He saw two children, namely Heena and Abhishek boarding the scooter of Appellant No.1, who drove the scooter towards Cine Payal Cinema.	None
He was undoubtedly examined on 12.06.2000.	None
He, however, disclosed the reason therefore.	None
He categorically stated that he had left for Delhi on the same night and on his return he came to know that the police had been visiting his house.	None
It is not unlikely that the police might have come to know that he was also present at the relevant time.	None
It is important to note that Appellant No.1 even had not been arrested at that point of time.	None
There was, thus, no reason for him to implicate Appellant No.1 as he had no animosity with him.	None
He gave a very vivid and detailed description of the place from where the children came boarded the scooter.	None
According to him the children were standing about 57 feet away from him on the street from where they boarded the scooter.	None
He did not notice Sahil (PW4).	None
He also accepted that he did not know Sarita.	None
There was no reason for him to know her.	None
There is, thus, no reason as to why we should disbelieve his evidence.	None
PW5, Pooja, is a tutor.	None
She merely stated that she had gone to the residence of other student, Sarita, having been informed that Abhishek and Heena did not return to their house.	None
Sarita told her that Heena had called some person wearing helmet, white shirt, black pant, as Chacha and then Abhishek and Heena sat on the scooter.	None
Sarita having not been examined, we do not intend to place any reliance on her statement.	None
We also do not accept the contention of Mr. D.P. Singh that her statement is admissible under Section 8 of the Evidence Act.	None
Section 8, inter alia, speaks about the conduct of an accused.	None
The statements made by Sarita before Pooja visvis the conduct of the victims did not form part of the same transaction.	None
Unless any fact or statement forms part of the same transaction, it will not be admissible in evidence.	None
Sarita had not identified the accused.	None
Sarita had not been examined and, therefore, the hearsay evidence of Pooja could not have been relied upon being based upon the purported statement of Sarita.	None
As regards conduct of the victims visavis the person about whom she was informed and whose identity was not known, cannot be said to be admissible in terms of Section 8 of the Evidence Act.	None
The learned Trial Judge relied upon Section 6 of the Evidence Act which, in our opinion, has no application.	None
P.W. 10 is Rakesh Kumar, brother of Kamal Kishore.	None
He deposed that he had also searched for the missing children.	None
He was also a witness to the recoveries of the school bags and dead bodies.	None
He proved that it was Sahil who had informed him that Gagan was seen with the children.	None
Contention of Mr. Mahabir Singh, if that was so, Gagan should have been named in the F.I.R., but it is not denied that on the basis of the said statement, Kamal Kishore and the witness had gone to his house, but he was not found there.	None
As they were merely searching for the children, they might not have thought at that time that Gagan had kidnapped the children.	None
Ordinarily a near relation would not be suspected.	None
He categorically stated till that time, it was not known who was the accused when the dead bodies were recovered.	None
We do not see any reason to disbelieve his evidence.	None
PW11 is Rakesh Kumar Kanojia.	None
He was the President of the Dhobi Maha Sabha, Punjab.	None
Appellant No.1 was also a member thereof.	None
He knew the family of Appellant No.1.	None
He was also an advocate.	None
According to the said witness, on 13.06.2000, Gagan together with another person, Rajinder Kumar, came to his residence and disclosed about a plan they had hatched to kidnap the children for ransom.	None
Each and every detail of the mode and manner in which the plan was to be implemented was disclosed by them.	None
Extrajudicial confessions made by the appellants separately have been stated by the said witness in sufficient details.	None
He was extensively crossexamined, but his statement made in examination in chief remained unshattered.	None
He denied and disputed that Ex. D1 was in his handwriting.	None
The only comment made by Mr. Mahabir Singh in regard to his evidence was that he was called to the police station on 16.06.2000 by the investigating officer.	None
He accepted the same.	None
We do not see any reason as to why he would not visit the police station if called upon to do so by the investigating officer.	None
He did not deny or dispute that he was also a witness to the recoveries.	None
He had no other option but to go to the police station as was asked by the investigating officer.	None
Even no suggestion has been given that he was inimically disposed towards Gagan or there was any animosity between the two families.	None
Mr. Mahabir Singh relied upon a decision of this Court in State of U.P. v. Arun Kumar Gupta (2003) 2 SCC 202 , wherein the evidence of a witness was not believed, as he was taking extraordinary interest in the investigation and was present at practically every important place and time in the course of investigation.	None
The said decision cannot be said to have any application in the instant case.	None
PW11 was examined by the prosecution to prove extrajudicial confession made before him by the appellants We do not see any reason as to why he would be disbelieved.	None
The learned Trial Judge as also the High Court rightly relied upon his statement.	None
Extrajudicial confession, as is wellknown, can form the basis of a conviction.	None
By way of abundant caution, however, the court may look for some corroboration.	None
Extrajudicial confession cannot ipso facto be termed to be tainted.	None
An extrajudicial confession, if made voluntarily and proved can be relied upon by the courts.	None
See Sukhwant Singh Balwinder Singh v. State through CBI  AIR 2003 SC 3362 .	None
Extrajudicial confession, however, purported to have been made by Appellant No.1 before his father, which was recorded in his statement before the Magistrate under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, was not admissible in evidence.	None
See State of Delhi v. Shri Ram Lohia  AIR 1960 SC 490 para 13 and George and Others v. State of Kerala and Another (1998) 4 SCC 605 para 36.	None
He was not examined by the prosecution.	None
He might not have been examined for good reasons.	None
At one point of time, he might have been sure about the involvement of his son, but at a later stage, he would have thought not to depose against him.	None
In a case of this nature, it was also not expected that the family members of Appellant No.1 would depose against him, as regards recovery of clothes which were recovered from his own house.	None
The prosecution furthermore has brought on record the recovery of trouser and shirt of the accused.	None
The colour of the said garments is not in dispute.	None
The fact that the same were not belonging to him has also not been canvassed before us.	None
Place of kidnapping has also not been disputed before us.	None
Apart from PW4, PW11 is also a witness to the said fact Recoveries of school bags of the deceased children and their dead bodies have also been proved, which have neither been denied nor disputed before us.	None
We may notice now that the recovery had also been made of empty bottles and glasses.	None
The said recovery has been proved by Sub Inspector Baldev Singh, PW17.	None
PW10, Rakesh Kumar, stated in his evidence that Deep Public School from whose Ahata the empty bottle and glasses had been recovered was at a distance of 100 yards from the place wherefrom the dead bodies of the children were recovered.	None
PW20, Inspector Nirmal Singh, recovered empty bottle of liquor containing a few drops thereof as also two glasses.	None
PW16, Sub Inspector Hardeep Singh, found the traces of finger prints on those articles.	None
He developed the finger prints on the glasses, which were comparable.	None
They were sent to the Finger Print Bureau, Phillaur and the report, which was marked as Ex.PHHH, revealed that the thumb impression lifted from the glasses by PW16 and thumb impression obtained from the appellants herein tallied with each other.	None
A letter was received by PW3, Kamal Kishore, on 09.06.2000 wherein a sum of Rs.10 lakhs was demanded by way of ransom.	None
It also bore a postal stamp.	None
PW3 was asked to tie a cloth of red colour on the roof of his house, which would be an indication to show that he was ready to pay the amount.	None
The said letter was marked as Ex.PT.	None
Thereafter specimen signature of the handwriting of both the accused were obtained under the order of Shri H.S. Grewal, Judicial Magistrate, First Class, who examined himself as PW12 and the same was sent to an handwriting expert Shri Balwinder Singh Bhandal, who examined himself as PW21.	None
He submitted a report which was marked as Ex. PJJ, stating that the said letter was in the handwriting of Appellant No.2.	None
Another important circumstance which weighed with the learned Trial Judge as also the High Court was the recovery of a camera from the bedbox of Appellant No. 1 as also remaining part of the dirty white cloth with which the arms of both the children were tied had been kept concealed therein.	None
He furthermore disclosed that the deck with two speakers were also kept concealed in the same room on the Angeethi and the said house was locked by him and he had kept concealed the keys of the said house near the outer gate underneath the same bricks.	None
His disclosure statement was recorded and thereafter recoveries were made, which was proved by the investigating officer, Inspector Nirmal Singh, PW20.	None
His statement were corroborated by ASI Mohinder Singh.	None
A cello tape was also recovered which was used by the accused for pasting on the mouth and nose of both the victims and for tying the plastic envelopes which were put on the faces of both the children.	None
Recoveries of the said articles were made pursuant to the information given by Appellant No. 1.	None
The information given by Appellant No.1 led to discovery of some facts.	None
Discovery of some facts on the information furnished by Appellant No.1 is a relevant fact within the meaning of Section 27 of the Indian Penal Code.	None
It is, therefore, admissible in evidence and the same could have been taken into consideration as a corroborative piece of evidence to establish general trend of corroboration to the extrajudicial confession made by the appellants.	None
It was urged that the investigation was tainted.	Reasoning
We do not find any reason to hold so.	Reasoning
Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code might have been mentioned in some of the documents by the investigating officer, although no case thereunder was made out till the recovery of the dead bodies.	Reasoning
But we do not find that the same was made designedly.	Reasoning
One of the cautions which is required to be applied is to see that actual culprit does not end up getting acquitted.	Reasoning
Reliance, in this behalf, has been placed by Mr. Mahabir Singh on Kishore Chand v. State of Himachal Pradesh (1991) 1 SCC 286 .	Reasoning
In that case none of the circumstantial evidence could be proved.	Reasoning
Therein indulgence of the investigating officer in free fabrication of the record was established which was deplored by this Court.31.	Reasoning
Keeping in view the circumstantial evidences, which have been brought on records, we are satisfied that all links in the chain are complete and the evidences led by the prosecution point out only to one conclusion, that is, the guilt of the appellants herein.	Reasoning
They have rightly been convicted of the offences charged against them by the learned Trial Judge.32.	Reasoning
An appeal had also been preferred by the complainant for enhancing the sentence.	Reasoning
Mr. D.K. Garg, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the complainant, would appeal to us for enhancement of the sentence.	Reasoning
We, do not think that the High Court has committed any error in opining that the case is not one of the rarest of rare cases.	Reasoning
It is also not a case where we should exercise our extraordinary jurisdiction in converting the penalty of rigorous imprisonment for life to one of imposition of death sentence.	Decision
We decline to do so.	Decision
For the reasons aforementioned, both the appeals are dismissed.	Decision
