 Sabyasachi Mukharji, J. Except Civil Appeals Nos. 4162063 of 1988, in these appeals along with the special leave petitions and the writ petition, we are concerned with S.9(1) and 24(3) as well as the penalty proceedings initiated under S.50 of the Haryana General Sales Tax Act, 1974 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Issue
So far as Civil Appeals Nos. 416263 of the 1988 are concerned, these involve the scope, effect and validity of S.13AA of the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1959 (hereinafter referred to as the Bombay Act) as introduced by the Maharashtra Act No. XXVIII of 1982.	Issue
It will, therefore, be desirable first to deal with the question of the Act, and then with the provisions of the Bombay Act as mentioned hereinbefore.	Issue
The appellant petitioner  Goodyear India Ltd., was engaged at all relevant times, inter alia, in the manufacture and sale of automobile tyres and tubes.	Facts
It manufactured the said tyres and tubes at its factory at Ballabhagarh in the district of Faridabad in the State of Haryana.	Facts
For the said manufacturing activity the appellant had, from time to time to purchase various kinds of raw materials both within the State and outside the State.	Facts
It is stated that about 7 to 10 of the total needs of raw materials on an all India basis were locally procured by the appellant from Haryana itself.	Facts
The raw materials purchased in Haryana were (1) pigments (partly), (ii) chemicals (partly), (iii) wires (partly), (iv) carbon black (partly), (v) rubber (partly) and (vi) fabric (partly).	Facts
The rest of the requirements were imported from other States.	Facts
The appellant had its depots at different places in the State of Haryana as well as in other States.	Facts
After manufacturing the said tyres and tubes, about 10 to 12 of the total manufactured products used to be sold in the State of Haryana either locally or in the course of inter State trade and commerce or in the course of export outside the country and also sold locally against Declaration Form No. ST15.	Facts
It was stated that at the relevant time the local sales including sales in the course of inter State trade and commerce and in the course of export from the State of Haryana was about 30 to 35.	Facts
The appellant was a registered dealer both under the Haryana Act and the Central Sales Tax Act, and had been submitting its quarterly returns and paying the sales tax in accordance with law, according to the appellant.	Facts
In 1979, the assessing authority, Faridabad, imposed upon the appellant the purchase tax under S.9 of the Act for the assessment year 197374 and subsequently for the years 197475 and 197576 as well on the despatches made by the appellant on the manufactured goods to its various depots outside the State.	Facts
Subsequently, the, relevant revenue authorities sought to impose purchase tax under S.9(1) of the Act and imposed purchase tax on despatches of manufactured goods, namely, tyres and tubes, to its various depots in other States.	Facts
This led to the filing of various writ petitions in the Punjab and Haryana High Court by the appellant petitioner.	Facts
In respect of the assessment years 197677 to 197980, these questions were considered by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, and the writ petitions were decided in favour of the appellant on December 4, 1982.	Facts
The said decision being the decision in Goodyear India Ltd. v. The State of Haryana is reported in (1983) 53 STC 163.	Facts
The Division Bench of the High Court in the said decision held that both on principle and precedent, a mere despatch of goods out of the State by a dealer to his own branch while retaining both title and possession thereof, does not come within the ambit of the phrase disposes of the manufactured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sales, as employed in S.9(1)(a)(ii) of the Act.	Facts
The High Court further held that the decision of this Court in The State of Tamil Nadu v. M. K. Kandaswami, (1975) 36 STC 191 (AIR 1975 SC 1871 ), was no warrant for the proposition that a mere despatch of goods was within the ambit of.	Facts
disposing them of.	Facts
The High Court also distinguished the decision of this Court in Ganesh Prasad Dixit v. Commr of Sales Tax, M.P. (1969) 24 STC 343 (AIR 1969 SC 1276 ), and held that Notification No. S. O. 119/ H.A.20/ 73/ S.9 and 15/ 74 dated July 19, 1974 issued under S.9 (prior to its amendment by Act No. 11 of 1979) was ultra vires of S.9 of the Act.	Facts
It was held that whereas the section provided only for the levy of purchase tax on the disposal of manufactured goods, the impugned notification by making a mere despatch of goods to the dealers themselves taxable, in essence, legislates and imposes a substantive tax which it obviously could not.	Facts
It was held that this was contrary to and in conflict with the provisions of S.9.	Facts
The High Court referred to the relevant portion of unamended S.9 of the Act with which it was confronted and the notification.	Facts
In order to appreciate the said decision and the position, it will be appropriate to set out the said provisions, namely, the unamended provisions of S.9 as well as the notification Where a dealer liable to pay tax under this Act purchases goods other than those specified in Schedule B from any source in the State and  (a) uses them in the State in the manufacture of,  (i) goods specified in Schedule B or (ii) any other goods and disposes of the manufactured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale whether within the State or in the course of inter State trade or commerce or within the meaning of subsection (1) of S.5 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, in the course of export out of the territory of India.	Facts
(b) exports them, in the circumstances in which no tax is payable under any other provision of this Act, there shall be levied, of subject to the provisions of S.17, a tax on the purchase of such goods at such rate as may be notified under S.15.	None
The relevant notification was as follows Notification No. S. O. 119/ H.A.20/ 73/ S.9 and 15/ 74 dated the 19th July, 1974.	None
In exercise of the powers conferred by S.9 and subsection (1) of S.15 of the Haryana General Sales Tax Act, 1973, the Governor of Haryana hereby directs that the rate of tax payable by all dealers in respect of the purchases of goods other than goods specified in Schedules C and D or goods liable to tax at the first stage notified as such under S.18 of the said Act, if used by them for purposes other than those for which such goods were sold to them, shall be the rate of tax leviable on the sale of such goods Provided that where any such dealer, instead of using such goods for the purpose for which they were sold to him, despatches such goods or goods manufactured therefrom at any time for consumption or sale outside the State. of Haryana to his branch or commission agent or any other person on his behalf in any other State and such branch, commission agent or other person is a registered dealer in that State and produces a certificate from the assessing authority of that State or produces his own affidavit and the affidavit of the consignee of such goods duly attested by a Magistrate or Oath Commissioner or Notary Public in the form appended to this notification to the effect that the goods in question have been so despatched and received and entered in the account books of the consignee, the rate of tax on such goods shall be three paise in a rupee on the purchase value of the goods so despatched.	Facts
The High Court, as stated before, referred to S.9 and held that the expression disposes of was not basically a term of legal art and, therefore, it was proper and necessary to first turn to its ordinary meaning in order to determine whether a mere despatch of goods by a dealer to himself would cannot disposal of such goods by him.	Facts
The High Court referred to the dictionary meaning of disposes of in Websters Third New International Dictionary.	Facts
Reference was also made to 27 Corpus Juris Secundum, p. 345, and ultimately it came to the conclusion that the phrase disposes of or disposal cannot be possibly equated with the mere despatch of goods by a dealer to himself.	Facts
After referring to the relevant provisions with which this Court was concerned in Kandaswamis case (AIR 1975 SC 1872) (supra), the High Court held that that case was no warrant for construing the expression despatch as synonymous to disposal.	Facts
On the other hand, the court held that the decision of this court emphasises that the expression disposal of goods is separate and distinct from despatch thereof.	Facts
According to the High Court, the same position was applicable to Ganesh Prasad Dixits case (AIR 1969 SC 1276 ) (supra), and in those circumstances held that the term disposes of cannot be synonymous with disposal, and once that is held then the notification mentioned above travelled far beyond what is provided in S.9 of the Act, while the said provision provided only for levy of purchase tax on disposal of manufactured goods.	Facts
The High Court observed as follows Once it is held as above, the impugned Notification No.	Facts
S.O. 119/11.A.20/73/S.9 and 15 /74 dated 19th July, 1974 (Annexure P2), plainly travels far beyond the parent S.9 of the Act.	Facts
Whereas the said provision provided only for the levy of a purchase tax on the disposal of manufactured goods, the notification by making a mere despatch of goods to the dealers themselves taxable in essence, legislates and imposes a substantive tax which it obviously cannot.	Facts
Indeed, its terms run contrary to and are in direct conflict with the provisions of S.9 itself.	Facts
There is thus no option but to hold that the notification, which is a composite one, is ultra vires of S.9 of the Act and is hereby struck down, The High Court also noted that though the challenged assessment orders were appealable, however, as the challenge was to the very validity of the notification which was obviously beyond the scope of the appellate authority, the writ petitions were entertainable as the assessment was based on the Notification which was frontally challenged.	None
As a result the High Court quashed the Notification and set aside the assessment orders.	Facts
The said decision is under challenge in appeal to this Court.	Facts
It may be mentioned that subsec.	None
(1) of S.9 of the Act had been introduced by the Haryana Act, 55 of 1976 in the Act.	None
After the aforesaid decision of the High Court, the Haryana Legislature intervened and enacted the Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment and Validation) Act, 1983 by which S.9 of the principal Act was amended as follows Amendment of S.9 of Haryana Act 20 of 1973  	None
In S.9 of the Principal Act, (a) in subsection (1),  (i) for clause (b), the following clause shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have been substituted for the period commencing from the 27th day of May, 1971, and ending with the 8th day of April, 1979, namely (b) purchases goods, other than those specified in Schedule B, from any source in the State and uses them in the State in the manufacture of any other goods and either disposes of the manufactured goods to a place outside the State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of subsection (1) of S.5 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, or (ii) after clause (b), the following clause shall be deemed to have been inserted with effect from the 9th day of April, 1979, namely (bb) purchases goods, other than those specified in Schedule B except milk, from any source in the State and uses them in the State in the manufacture of any other goods and either disposes of the manufactured goods in any manner otherwise than by way sale in the State or despatches the manufactured goods to a place outside the State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of subsection (1) of S.5 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, or (iii) the following proviso shall be added, namely Provided that no tax shall be leviable under this section on scientific goods and guar gum, manufactured in the State and sold by him in the course of export outside the territory of India.	None
within the meaning of subsection (3) of Section of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, and (b) in subsection (3), the words other than Railway premises shall be omitted.	None
After the aforesaid amendment the writ petitions were filed in the High Court by	None
Bata India Ltd.	Facts
In the meantime, the petitioner Company also filed writ petitions for the assessment years 197374 to 197576 and 198081 in the High Court challenging the assessments.	None
The High Court decided these matters on August 2, 1983.	None
The said decision (Bata India Ltd. v. The State of Haryana has been reported in (1983)	None
54 STC 226 (1984 Tax LR 2982)) (Punj and Har).	None
The High Court held that mere despatch of goods to a place outside the State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce is synonymous with or is in any case included within the ambit of the consignment of goods either to the person making it or to any other person in the course of inter State trade or commerce as specified in Art.269(1)(h) and Entry No. 92B of List 1 of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution.	None
Hence, the levy of sales or purchase tax on such a despatch or consignment of goods and matters ancillary or subsidiary thereto, will be within the exclusive legislative competence of Parliament to the total exclusion of the State Legislature.	None
Therefore, S.9(1)(b) of the Haryana General Sales Tax Act, 1973, as amended by the Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment and Validation) Act, 1983 insofar as it lives a purchase tax on the consignment of goods outside the State in the course of inter State trade or commerce is beyond the legislative competence of the State of Haryana and is void and inoperative.	None
It was held that the retrospective validation of the notification of 19th July, 1974 referred to hereinbefore and the consequential validation of all actions taken thereunder were liable to be quashed.	None
The High Court further held that mere manufacture and consignment of goods outside the State to himself by a manufacturer is not sale or disposal thereof with the result that it will not be within the ambit of Entry No. 54 of List II of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution.	None
Consequently, it was held that irrespective of the 46th Amendment, an attempt.	None
to tax the mere consignment or despatch of manufactured goods outside the State in the course of inter State trade or commerce will not come within the ambit of Entry No. 54 of List II of the 7th Schedule, and consequently of the competence of the respective State Legislatures.	None
Even before the 46th Amendment, the mere consignment of goods in the course of inter State trade or commerce was beyond the scope of the said Entry and thus not within the legislative competence of the States and was entirely within the Parliamentary field of legislation by virtue of Art.248 and the residuary Entry No. 97 of	None
List I.	None
The High Court was of the view that neither the original purchase of goods nor the manufacture thereof into the endproduct by itself attracts purchase tax and consequently are not given remotely the taxable events.	None
What directly and pristinely attracts the tax and can be truly labelled as the taxing event under S.9(1)(b) of the Act is the threefold exigency of (i) disposal of the manufactured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the State or (ii) despatch of the manufactured goods to a place outside the State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce, or (iii) disposal or despatch of the manufactured goods in the course of export outside.	None
the territory of India.	None
It was these three exigencies only which were the taxable events in the amended S.9(1)(b) of the Act.	None
Consequently, in a Statute where the taxable event is the despatch or consignment of goods outside the State, the same would come squarely within the wide sweep of Entry No. 92B of List I of the Constitution, and thus excludes taxation by the States.	None
The High Court was of the view that S.9 of the Act must be strictly construed as it was a charging section.	None
If the charging section travels beyond the legislative Entry and thereby transgresses the legislative field, then the same cannot possibly be sustained.	None
The constitutional changes brought by the 46th Amendment in Art.269 of the Constitution read with the insertion of Entry No. 92B in the Union List, leave no doubt that the legislative arena of tax on the consignment of goods (whether to ones own self or to any other person) in the course of inter State trade or commerce and all ancillary or complementary or consequential matters, are now declared to be exclusively reserved for parliamentary legislation and any intrusion into this filed by the State Legislatures would be barred.	None
In my opinion, the High Court correctly noted in the said decision that the provisions of constitutional change have to be construed, and such problems should not be viewed in narrow isolationism but on a much wider spectrum and the principles laid down in Heydons case (1984) 3 Co Rep 7a are instructive.	Reasoning
Hence, in a situation of this nature, it was just and proper to see what was the position before the 46th Amendment of the Constitution, and find out what was the mischief that was sought to be remedied and then discover the true rationale for such a remedy.	Reasoning
In Black claws on International Ltd. v. Papierwerke waldhofAschaffenburg	Reasoning
Ag.	Reasoning
(1975) 1	Reasoning
All ER 810, Lord Reid observed as follows One must first read the words in the context of the Act as a whole, but one is entitled to go beyond that.	Reasoning
The general rule in construing any document is that one should put oneself in the shoes of the maker or makers and take into account relevant facts known to them when the document was made.	Reasoning
The same must apply to Acts of Parliament subject to one qualification.	Reasoning
An Act is addressed to all the lieges and it would seem wrong to take into account anything that was not public knowledge at the time.	Reasoning
That may be common knowledge at the time or it may be some published information which Parliament can be presumed to have had in mind.	None
It has always been said to be important to consider the mischief which the Act was apparently intended to remedy.	None
The word mischief traditional.	Reasoning
I would expand it in this way.	Reasoning
In addition to reading the Act you look at the facts presumed to be known to Parliament when the Bill which became the Act in question was before it, and you consider whether there is disclosed some unsatisfactory state of affairs which Parliament can properly be supposed to have intended to remedy by the Act The state of affairs that the Parliament has sought to remedy by the 46th Amendment of the Constitution, was that prior to the promulgation each State attempted to subject the same transaction to tax on the nexus doctrine under its sales tax laws.	None
Consequently, on the basis of one or the other element of the territorial nexus, the same transaction had to suffer tax in different States with the inevitable hardship to trade and consumers in the same or different States.	Reasoning
The framers of the Constitution being fully aware of the problems sought to check the same by a somewhat complex constitutional scheme and by imposing restrictions on the States power with regard to levy tax on the sale or purchase of goods under Art.286.	Reasoning
The High Court in the judgment referred to hereinbefore, mentioned these factors.	Reasoning
It is in this background that Art.269 was amended and clause (3) was added to it.	Reasoning
The effect, inter alia, is that the power to levy tax on the sale or purchase of goods is now referable to the legislative power vested in the States by virtue of Entry 54 in List II of the 7th Schedule.	Reasoning
However, this legislative authority of the States is restricted by three limitations contained in Arts. 286(1)(a), 286(1)(b) and 286(3) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It may be mentioned that Parliament by the 6th Amendment to the Constitution, enacted the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, with the object to formulate principles for determining when a sale or purchase of goods takes place in the course of inter State trade or commerce or outside a State or in the course of import into or export from India, to provide for the levy, collection and distribution of taxes on sales of goods in the course of inter State trade or commerce and to declare certain goods to be of, special.	Reasoning
importance and specify the restrictions and conditions to which State laws imposing taxes on the sale of purchase of such goods shall be subject.	Reasoning
In this connection, the High Court referred to the various propositions as mentioned by the Law Commission in its 61st Report rendered in May, 1974.	Reasoning
It is not necessary to set out the same in detail.	Reasoning
It was in the aforesaid historical background that the High Court construed the provisions in question and came to the conclusion that plain reading of these would leave little manner of doubt that the legislative power to tax consignment transfers of goods from one branch of an institution to another branch thereof outside the State and all matters incidental, ancillary or complementary thereto were then declared to be vested in the Union of India to the total exclusion of the States.	Reasoning
The High Court referred to the observations of this Court in Khyerbari Tea Co Ltd. v. State of Assam, AIR 1964 SC 925 , Navinchandra Mafatlal v. Commer. of Income tax, Bombay City, 1955	Reasoning
SCR 829 (AIR 1955 SC 58 ) and Waverly Jute Mills Co. Ltd. v. Raymon and Co.	Reasoning
(1) Pvt. Ltd. (1963) 3	Reasoning
SCR 209 (AIR 1963 SC 90 ), and concluded that Entry 92B enabled the Union of India not only to tax the consignment of goods in the strict sense but also embraced all ancillary and complementary areas as well to the exclusion of the State Legislature therefrom.	Reasoning
In the aforesaid light the High Court construed S.9(1)(b) of the Haryana Act, 1983.	Reasoning
Analysing the provisions in detail it observed that S.9 of the Act was a charging section for the levy of purchase tax.	Reasoning
It imposed liability for payment of purchase tax, therefore, it should be distinguished from the machinery section.	Reasoning
The High Court examined the real nature of the business outside the State and found that there was merely a change in the physical sites of the goods without any change in the basic incident of ownership and control.	Reasoning
Therefore, in its true nature a mere despatch of goods outside the State to another branch of the original institution is not and never can be the equivalent of a sale either as a term of art in the existing sales tax legislation and not remotely so in common parlance, and construing S.9(1)(b) of the Act, the High Court was of the view that the real taxing event is the despatch of the manufactured goods to a place outside the State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce.	Reasoning
The High Court found that there was no distinction between the despatch as defined in the said amended section and the consignment of goods by the manufacturer to himself or to any other person in the course of inter State trade or commerce, and referred to the meanings of the expressions desptach and consign, which are similar and almost interchangeable when used in specific commercial sense.	Facts
The High court referred to Websters New International Dictionary, Shorter Oxford English Dictionary and also to Random House dictionary for their meanings.	Facts
On construction, the High Court came to the conclusion that the amended provisions of S.9(1)(b) of the Act attempt to levy an identical tax in the garb of a levy on the despatch of manufactured goods to places outside the State of Haryana, and therefore intruded and trespassed into an arena exclusively meant for taxation by the Union of India.	Facts
The High Court also viewed from another point of view, namely, who was liable as it was the consignment of goods which attracted the liability of purchase tax and in pristine essence was the taxable event under S.9(1)(b) of the Act.	Facts
The High Court also analysed it from the point of view that under S.9(1)(b) where a dealer purchases goods for the express purpose of manufacturing other goods within the State, then in strict sense such purchase by itself did not attract any tax under the provision.	Facts
Hence, the High Court set aside the amended provision so far as it sought to levy purchase tax on the consignment of goods outside the State in the course of inter State trade or commerce, consequently it also set aside the retrospective validation of the notification and the consequential validation of all actions taken thereunder.	Facts
Special leave petitions were filed in this court against the said decision of the High Court.	Facts
These are special leave petitions Nos. 8397 to 8402 of 1983.	Facts
During the pendency of the special leave petitions, show cause notices were issued by the assessing authority in respect of the assessment years 197374 to 198081 (except for 197879 and 1979180) and also for 198283 asking the petitioner to show cause why in addition to purchasetax, it should not be liable to penalty as well.	Facts
The petitioner company again filed writ petitions in Punjab and Haryana High Court challenging the validity of those notices.	Facts
It appears that in the meantime, a Full Bench of the High Court decided the question again in the case of Des Raj Pushap Kumar Gulati v. State of Punjab.	Facts
This decision was rendered on January 24, 1985, and is reported in (1985) 58 STC 393 (1985 Tax LR 2882).	Facts
The assessment years involved in all these appeals are 197374 to 198283.	Facts
According to the Full Bench the taxing event is the act of purchase and not the act of despatch of consignment as held in Bata India Ltd. (1984 Tax LR 2982) (Punj and Har) (supra).	Facts
In the premises, it was held that S.9(1)(b) as amended, was neither invalid nor ultra vires and overruled the decision of	Facts
Bata India Ltd.	Facts
The writ petitions filed were also dismissed.	Facts
The petitioner company filed special leave petitions against the aforesaid judgment of the Punjab and Haryana High Court which were admitted in civil appeals Nos. 116672/ 85.	Facts
Goodyear India also filed writ petition No. 3834 of 1985 in respect of the assessment year 198182, as the notices for assessment and penalty were received after the decision of Punjab and Haryana High Court in Des Raj Pushap Kumars case (1985 Tax LR 2882) (FB) (supra).	Facts
The said decision was passed in appeal against the decision of the said court in Goodyear India reported in (1983) 53 STC 163 (Punj and Har), number being 1514 (NT) of 1984.	Facts
All these questions are the subject matters of these appeals.	Facts
It is well settled that what is the taxable event or what necessitates taxation in an appropriate Statute, must be found out by, construing the provisions.	Reasoning
The essential task is to find out what is the taxable event.	Reasoning
In what is considered to be indirect tax, there is a marked distinction between the consequence of manufacture and the consequence of sale.	Reasoning
It is well to remember that in construing the expressions of the Constitution to judge whether the provisions like S.9(1)(b) of the Act, are within the competence of the State Legislature, one must bear in mind that the Constitution is to be construed not in a narrow or pedantic sense.	Reasoning
Constitution is not to be construed as mere law but as the machinery by which laws are to be made.	Reasoning
It was observed by Lord Wright in James v. Commonwealth of Australia (1936)	None
AC 578 at 614, that the rules which apply to the interpretation of other Statutes, however, apply equally to the interpretation of a constitutional enactment.	None
In this context, Lord Wright referred to the observations of the Australian High Court in The Attorney General for the State of New South Wales v. The Brewery Employees Union etc. (1908) 6 CLR 469 where it was observed that the words of the Constitution must be interpreted on the same principles as any ordinary law, and these principles compel us to consider the nature and scope of the Act, and to remember that the Constitution is a mechanism under which laws are to be made, and not a mere Act which declares what the law is to be.	None
Hence, such mechanism should be interpreted broadly, bearing in mind in appropriate cases, that the Supreme Court like ours is a nice balance of jurisdictions.	None
A Constitutional Court, one must bear in mind, will not strengthen, but only derogate from its position if it seeks to do anything but declare the law but it may rightly reflect that a Constitution is a living and organic thing, which of all instruments has the greatest claim to be construed broadly and liberally.	None
See the observations of Gwyer, CA.	None
in Re Central Provinces and Berar Sales of Motor Spirit and Lubricants Taxation Act, 1938 AIR 1939 FC 1 at p. 4.	None
Mr. Justice Sulaiman in his judgment at p. 22 of the report observed that the power to tax the sale of goods is quite distinct from any right to impose taxes on use or consumption.	None
It cannot be exercised at the earlier stage of production nor at the later stage of use or consumption, but only at the, stage of sale, (emphasis supplied).	None
The essence of a tax on goods manufactured or produced is that the right to levy it accrues by virtue of their manufacture.	None
On the other hand, a duty on the sale of goods cannot be levied merely because goods have been manufactured or produced.	None
Nor can it be levied merely because the goods have been consumed or used or even destroyed.	None
The right to levy the duty would not at all come into existence before the time of the sale.	Reasoning
In this connection, reference may be made to the observations of Chief Justice Gwyer in Province of Madras v. Boddu Paidanna and Sons AIR 1942 FC 33.	None
Mr. Raja Ram Agarwala, learned counsel for the appellant assessees, contended before us that it is necessary to find out or identify the taxable event.	Arguments of Petitioner
If on a true and proper construction of the amended provisions of S.9(1)(b) it is the despatch or consignment of the goods that is the taxable event as contended by the petitioners and appellants, then the power is beyond the States competence.	Arguments of Petitioner
If, on the other hand, it is the purchase of the goods that is the taxable event as held by the Full Bench of the High Court, then it will be within its competence.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Full Bench in Des Raj Pushap Kumars case (1985 Tax LR 2882) (Punj and Har) (supra) has relied on the background of the facts and the circumstances which necessitated the introduction of the amendment.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Tewatia, learned counsel appearing for the State canvassed before us the historical perspective and stated that Haryana State came into being as a result of the Punjab State Reorganisation Act, 1966, therefore, part of the legislative history of the taxing statute like any other Statute is shared by the Haryana State with the Punjab State, and as such it is proper to notice the concept of purchase tax as it evolved in the State of Punjab.	None
Purchasetax was introduced in the State of Punjab for the first time by the East Punjab General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1958.	None
S.2(ff) was introduced for the first time to define the expression purchase.	None
The definition of the term dealer was changed to include therein a purchaser of goods also.	None
The definition of the term taxable turnover was also altered.	None
Some dealers who crushed oilseeds, were called upon to pay purchase tax on the raw material purchased by them on the ground that the raw material had not been subjected to a manufacturing process as the process of crushing oil seeds did not involve a process of manufacturing.	None
He referred to the fact, that Punjab had originally exempted purchase tax on the purchase of raw material by the dealers if such raw material was to be used for the manufacture of goods for sale in Punjab and thus generate more revenue to the State as a result of the sales tax on such manufactured goods.	None
But when the dealers started avoiding this condition for sale in Punjab by various ingenious devices after having escaped the payment of purchase tax on the raw material purchased by them, the Legislature amended the Act and Punjab Act No. 18 of 1960 was brought on the statute book w.e.f.	None
April 1, 1960.	None
S.2(ff) of the Act was amended and it provided that all the goods mentioned in Schedule C when purchased shall be eligible to purchase tax and thus the concession given to the manufacturers was withdrawn.	None
Explaining this background, Mr. Tewatia contended that S.9, subsection (i) of the Act envisages payment of tax at such rate as may be notified under S.15 on the purchase of goods from any source within the State by a dealer liable to pay tax under the Act when such goods, not being Schedule B goods, were consumed either in producing Schedule B goods or when the manufactured goods were other than Schedule B goods, the same not being sold within the State or in the course of inter State trade or commerce, or in the course of export outside the territory of India, or the purchased goods were exported outside the State.	None
After referring to the relevant provisions and the provisions of S.9(1)(b), Mr. Tewatia emphasised that the contingency contemplated by or despatches the manufactured goods to a place outside the State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of S.5(1) of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 or as well as clause (c) of S.9(1) which encompasses purchases goods, other than those specified in Schedule B, from any source in the State and exports them, in the circumstances in which no tax is payable under any other provision of this Act, there shall be levied, subject to the provisions of S.17, a tax on the purchase of such goods at such rate as may be notified under S.15. , have to be judged for determining their validity in the true historical perspective as well as bearing in mind the remedial aspect of the provisions for the purpose of which these were enacted.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the main question is whether the tax envisaged by S.9(1) is a tax on purchase sale of given goods or is a tax on the despatch consignment of such goods and that depends on, as to whether the taxable event is a purchase sale of goods or despatch consignment of such goods.	Arguments of Respondent
As mentioned hereinbefore, Mr. Tewatia laid great deal of emphasis on the background of the provisions of S.9(1), He urged that the said section is both a taxing as well as a remedial provision, as would be evident from the scheme of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The legislative policy was to see that all goods except non taxable goods i.e. Schedule B goods, must yield tax revenue to the State in the hands of a dealer, at one stage or the other, according to Mr. Tewatia.	Arguments of Respondent
He analysed the scheme and referred us to S.6 along with S.27 of the Act, and then submitted that the provision of S.9(1) along with subsection (3) of S.24 of the Act are both composite provisions, i.e. they are both charging provisions as also remedial provisions.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, such composite provisions of a fiscal statute deserve to be interpreted properly and in such a manner as to further remedy and thus effectuate the legislative intent and suppress the mischief intended to be curbed.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance was placed by the High Court as well as Mr. Tewatia before us on the observations of this Court in the State of Tamil Nadu v. Kandaswami (supra), where at p. 198 of the 36 Sales Tax Cases 191 (at pp. 187576 of AIR 1975 SC 1871), this Court while dealing with S.7A of the Tamil Nadu (Amendment) Act, observed that it was at once a charging as well as a remedial provision.	None
Its main object was to plug leakage and prevent evasion of tax.	None
In interpreting such a provision, a construction which would defeat its purpose and, in effect, obliterate A from the statute book, should be eschewed.	None
If more than one construction is possible, that which preserves its workability and efficacy is to be preferred to the one which would render it otiose or sterile, observed this Court in that case.	None
While bearing the aforesaid principle in mind, it has to be examined as to how far the application of this provision can be construed with the well settled principle of fiscal legislation and the terms and conditions of the present legislation.	None
It has been said and said on numerous occasions that fiscal laws must be strictly construed, words must say what they mean, nothing should be presumed or implied, these must say so.	None
The true test must always be the language used.	None
On behalf of the assessee, Mr. Rajaram Agarwala, however, further contended that the ratio of Kandaswarnis case (AIR 1975 SC 1871 ) (supra) to which Mr. Tewatia referred, must be understood in the light of the question involved in that case.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said decision of this Court was concerned with the limited point as to whether the Madras High Court was right in observing whether one could say that the sale which is exempted is liable to tax and then assume that because of exemption, the tax is not payable.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court held that the language of S.7A of the said Act was far from clear as to its intention and did not concern with the identification of the taxing event.	Arguments of Petitioner
Furthermore, it has to be borne in mind, as emphasised by Mr. Agarwala, that if at all the taxing event was spelt out, it was on the assumption that the goods in question were generally taxable and these were to be put to tax under S.7A of the Tamil Nadu Act, if these came to be purchased without payment of tax and then sought to be dealt with in any manner as to escape payment of State .	Arguments of Petitioner
sales purchase tax within the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
23.	None
Mr. Tewatia drew our attention to the observations of this Court in Kandaswarnis case (AIR 1975 SC 187 1) (supra) to prove that the observations in Malabar Fruit Products Co. v. The Sales Tax Officer, Palai (1972)	None
30 STC 537 (1972 Tax LR 2202), where these questions were decided by Justice Poti of the Kerala High Court, who spelt out that the taxing event was not the event of despatch but the event of purchase sale of goods.	None
It has, however, to be borne in mind that the questions involved in Malabar Fruit Products case and Kandaswamis case (supra) were not concerned with the actual argument with which we are concerned in the instant matter.	None
It is well settled that a precedent is an authority only for what it actually decides and not for what may remotely or even logically follows from it.	None
See Quinn v. Leather(1901)	None
AC 495 and State of Orissa v. Sudhansu Sekhar Misra (1968) 2	None
SCR 154 (AIR 1968 SC 647 ).	Reasoning
Therefore, the ratio of the said decision cannot be properly applied in construing the provisions of S.9(1)(b) in this case to determine what is the taxable event.	None
It was contended by Mr. Rajaram Agarwala that clause (b) of S.9(1) dealt with non exempted goods purchased in the State, used in the manufacture of any goods whether exempted or not, but when despatched outside the State of Haryana i.e. by way of stock transfer consignment will attract the tax liability under this section, hence, the event of despatch or consignment is the immediate cause which attracts the tax liability under S.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
The quality or the character of goods which should be liable to tax under S.9 in clause (1)(a) is the non exempted goods purchased in the State while under the first part of clause (b) the quality of goods liable to tax is the non exempted goods purchased in the State and under the second part of clause (b), the quality of goods must be non exempted goods purchased and manufactured in the State, whether exempted or not in the State which is liable to tax on despatch outside Haryana and under clause (c) the goods purchased in Haryana without undergoing any further change or use is the quality of goods liable to tax when exported.	Arguments of Petitioner
The submission of the State is that the taxable event is the purchase of goods in Haryana while the obligation to pay is postponed on the fulfilment of certain conditions.	Arguments of Respondent
The further argument is that there is a general liability to purchase tax which the dealer avoids on furnishing a Declaration in S.T.	Arguments of Respondent
Form 15 as provided by S.24 at the time of purchase, wherein certain conditions are mentioned and when those conditions are not fulfilled, those revive.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further argued that the conditions are incorporated in S.9 of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
For testing which of the contentions are nearer to find out the exact taxable event, certain indices and illustrations may be seen.	Arguments of Respondent
Their analysis will indicate that there is no liability to pay sales tax under the Haryana Act on the purchaser.	Arguments of Respondent
It is admitted that on such sales the selling dealer is liable to pay sales tax.	Arguments of Respondent
On such purchases, the sale and purchase being the two sides of the same coin, no purchase tax is imposed under the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
This has been the accepted position by the State also for, while replying to the question of double taxation, counsel for the State admitted that sales as well as purchase tax is to be imposable under the scheme of the Act which are of two sides.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, it was rightly urged by Mr. Rajaram Agarwala that the first contention for attracting the applicability of S.9(i), whether a dealer is liable to pay tax under this Act purchases goods, is missing when the section (1) talks of a dealer liable to pay tax under the Act, obviously it is with reference to his purchasing activity and if on that activity no purchase tax is payable, S.9(1) would not be applicable.	Arguments of Respondent
To accept the submissions advanced by Mr. Tewatia, assumptions and presumptions are to be made.	Reasoning
It is not permissible to do so in a fiscal provision.	Reasoning
See in this connection the observations of this Court in C.S.T., U.P. v. The Modi Sugar Mills Ltd. (1961) 2	Reasoning
SCR 189 (AIR 1961 SC 1047 ) and Baidyanath Ayurved Bhawan (P) Ltd., Jhansi v. Excise Commissioner, U.P. (1971)	Reasoning
2	Reasoning
SCR 590 at p. 592 (AIR 197 SC 378 at p. 380).	Reasoning
In that background it must be noted that S.9 of the Act nowhere makes a reference to S.24 or any declaration furnished by the purchasing dealer on the basis of which he was granted temporary exemption and thereby revival of the original purchase tax on the breach of declaration as such.	Reasoning
S.9 of the Act opens with the expression Where a dealer liable to pay tax under this Act and not Whether a dealer has paid tax or has not paid tax.	Reasoning
The phrase liable to pay tax under the Act must relate to liability to pay sales tax on such purchases.	Reasoning
It is well settled that the main test for determining the taxable event is that on the happening of which the charge is affixed.	Reasoning
The realisation often is postponed to further date The quantification of the levy and the recovery of tax are also postponed in some cases.	Reasoning
It is well settled that there are three stages in the imposition of tax.	Reasoning
There is the declaration of liability, that is the part of the Statute which determines what persons in respect of what property are liable.	Reasoning
Next, there is the assessment.	Reasoning
Liability does not depend on assessment, that ex hypothesis has already been fixed.	Reasoning
But assessment particularises the exact sum which a person is liable to pay.	Reasoning
Lastly comes the method of recovery if the person taxed does not voluntarily pay.	Reasoning
Reference may be made to the observations of Lord Dunedin in Whitney v. Commissioner of Inland Revenue (1926)	Reasoning
AC 37 at p. 52 and of the Federal Court in Chatturam v. CIT, Bihar (1947) 15 ITR 302 at p. 308 (AIR 1947 FC 32 at p. 35).	Reasoning
Taxable event is that which on its occurrence creates or attracts the liability to tax.	None
Such liability does not exist or accrue at any earlier or later point of time.	None
The identification of the subject matter of a tax is to be found in the charging section.	None
In this connection, one has to analyse the provisions of S.9(2)(b) as well as S.9(1)(b) and 9(1)(c).	None
Analysing the section, it appears to us that the two conditions specified, before the event of despatch outside the State as mentioned in S.9(1)(b), namely, (i) purchase of goods in the State and (ii) using them for the manufacture of any other goods in the State, are only descriptive of the goods liable to tax under S.9(1)(b) in the event of despatch outside the State.	None
If the goods do not answer both the descriptions cumulatively, even though these are despatched outside the State of Haryana, the purchase of those goods would not be put to tax under S.9(1)(b).	None
The focal point in the expression goods, the sale or purchase of ,which is liable to tax under the Act, is the character and class of goods in relation to exigibility.	None
In this connection, reference may be made to the observations of this Court in Andhra Sugars Ltd. v. State of Andhra Pradesh (1968) 1	Reasoning
SCR 705 (AIR 1968 SC 599 ).	Reasoning
On a clear analysis of the said section, it appears that S.9(1)(b) has to be judged as and when liability accrues under that section.	None
The liability to pay tax under this section does not accrue on purchasing the goods simpliciter, but only when these are despatched or consigned out of the State of Haryana.	None
In all these cases, it is necessary to find out the true nature of the tax.	None
Analysing the section, if one looks to the purchase tax under S.9, one gets the conclusion that the section itself does not provide for imposition of the purchase tax on the transaction of purchase of the taxable goods but when further the said taxable goods are used up and turned into independent taxable goods, losing its original identity, and thereafter when the manufactured goods are despatched outside the State of Haryana and only then tax is levied and liability to pay tax is created.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is the cumulative effect of that event which occasions or causes the tax to be imposed, to draw a familiar analogy it is the last straw on the camels back.	None
In this connection, reference may be made to the observations of Justice Vivian Bose in the Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. v. The State of Mar 1958 SCR 1355 at p. 1381	None
(AIR 1958 SC 452 at p. 464), where he observed as follows I would therefore reject the nexus theory in so far as it means that any one sale can have existence and entity simultaneously in many different places.	None
The States may tax the sale but may not disintegrate it, and, under the guise of taxing the sale in truth and in fact, tax its various elements, one its head and one its tail, one its entrails and one its limbs by a legislative fiction that deems that the whole is within its claws simply because, after tearing it apart, it finds a hand or a foot or a heart or a liver still quivering in its grasp.	None
Nexus, of course, there must be but nexus of the entire entity that is called a sale, wherever it is deemed to be situate.	None
Fiction again.	None
Of course, it is fiction, but it is a fiction as to situs imposed by the Constitution Act and by the Supreme Court that speaks for it in these matters and only one fiction, not a dozen little ones.	None
It is, therefore, necessary in all cases to find out what is the essence of the duty which is attracted.	Reasoning
A taxable event is that which is closely related to imposition, In the instant section, there is such close relationship only with despatch.	Reasoning
Therefore, the goods purchased are used in manufacture of new independent commodity and thereafter the said manufactured goods are despatched outside the State of Haryana.	Reasoning
In this series of transactions the original transaction is completely eclipsed or ceases to exist when the levy is imposed at the third stage of despatch of manufacture.	Reasoning
In the instant case the levy has no direct connection with the transaction of purchase of raw materials, it has only a remote connection of lineage.	Reasoning
It may be indirectly and very remotely connected with the transaction of the purchase of raw material wherein the present levy would lose its character of purchase tax on the said transaction.	Reasoning
Mr. Rajaram Agarwala submitted that the measure of tax is with reference to the value of purchased goods in the State of Haryana.	Arguments of Petitioner
As mentioned before, reference has been made to the decision of Kandaswamis case (AIR 1975.	Arguments of Petitioner
SC 187 1) (supra), where this Court dealt with S.7A of the Tamil Nadu Act, which was not identical but similar to S.9 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
There at p. 196 (of STC) (at p. 1874 of AIR) of the report, this Court observed as follows Difficulty in interpretation has been experienced only with regard to that part of the subsection which relates to ingredients (4) and (5).	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court has taken the view that the expression goods, the sale or purchase of which is liable to tax under this Act, and the phrase purchases in circumstances in which no tax is payable under S.3, 4 or 5 are a contradiction in terms.	None
Ingredients Nos. 4 and 5 are as follows The goods purchased are goods, the sale or purchase of which is liable to tax under this Act 5.	None
Such purchase is, in circumstances, in which no tax is payable under S.3, 4 or 5, as the case may be The relevant ingredient involved, as mentioned at page No. 196 (of STC) (at p. 1874 of AIR), was as under The dealer	None
either (a) consumes such goods in the manufacture of other goods for sale or otherwise or (b) despatches all such goods in any manner other than by way of sale in the State or (c) despatches them to a place outside the State except as a direct result of sale or purchase in the course of inter State trade or commerce.	None
This ingredient was neither argued nor was considered, so the passing reference based on the phraseology of the section is not the dictum of Kandaswamis case (AIR 1975 SC 1871 ).	Reasoning
Secondly, in S.9, in the instant case, the raw materials purchased or used in the manufacture of new goods and thereafter those new goods were despatched outside the State of Haryana whereupon the tax was levied.	Reasoning
This important factor is Wholly missing in S.7A of the Tamil Nadu Act, which was considered in Kandaswarnis case (AIR 1975 SC 1871 ).	Reasoning
In that decision, this Court approved the Kerala High Courts decision in Malabar Fruit Products (1972 Tax LR 2202) (supra), which was confined to the interpretation of the words goods, the sale or purchase under the Act.	Reasoning
A decision on a question which has not been argued cannot be treated as a precedent.	Reasoning
See the observations of this Court in Rajput Ruda Maha v. State of Gujarat (1980) 2	Reasoning
SCR 353 at p. 356 (AIR 1980 SC 1707 at p. 1708).	Reasoning
The decision of the Division Bench of the Kerala High Court in Yusuf Shabeer v. State of Kerala.	Reasoning
(1973) 32 STC 359 (1974 Tax LR 1730) is clearly distinguishable.	Reasoning
In Ganesh Prasad Dixits case (AIR 1969 SC 1276 ) (supra) the question of constitutional validity was not argued.	Reasoning
A reference was made by Mr. Tewatia to the decision of the High Court in the Coffee Board v. commr of Commercial Taxes.	Reasoning
(1985) 60 STC 142 (Kant) and the decision of this Court in Coffee Board, Karnataka v. commr of Commercial Taxes, Karnataka (1988) 70 STC 162 (AIR 1988 SC 1487 ).	Reasoning
In these cases the question involved was the acquisition of coffee by the Coffee Board under compulsory acquisition or purchase or sale of goods.	Reasoning
That question is entirely different from the question with which we are concerned in these appeals.	None
Prior to 46th Amendment, Entry 54 of List II of the 7th Schedule of the constitution of India which demarcated the exclusive field of State Legislation, read with Art.246(3) of the Constitution conferred power on the State Legislature to impose tax on the transactions of sale or purchase of goods.	None
The said Entry read as follows Taxes on the sale or purchase of goods other than Newspapers, subject to the provisions of Entry 92A of List P. Entry 92A of List I, which is in the exclusive domain of the Union, was to the following extent Taxes on the sale or purchase of goods other than Newspapers, where such sale or purchase takes place in the course of inter State trade or commerce.	None
The mere consignment of goods by a manufacturer to his own branches outside the State does not in any way amount to a sale or disposal of the goods as such.	None
The consignment or despatch of goods is neither a sale nor a purchase.	None
The first judgment in case of Goodyear India was on December 4, 1982 (Reported in (1983) 53 STC 163 (Punj and Hry)) when it was held that the Notification was beyond the Act, as the word disposal did not include the word mere despatch as mentioned in the notification.	None
The Constitution (46th Amendment) Act, 1982 came into force on February 2, 1983, whereby S.9 was amended.	None
This amendment was after 46th Constitutional Amendment Act, 1982.	None
The 46th Constitution Amendment Act in the Statement of Objects and Reasons, inter alia, stated as follows There were reports from State Governments to whom revenues from sales tax have been assigned, as to the large scale avoidance.	None
of Central Sales Tax leviable on inter State sales of goods through the device of consignment of goods from one State to another and as to the leakage of local Sales Tax in works contracts	None
, hire purchase transactions, lease of films etc.	None
Though, Parliament could levy a tax on these transactions, as tax on sales has all along been treated as an item of revenue to be assigned to the States, in regard to these transactions which resemble sales also, it is considered that the same policy should be adopted.	None
The Law Commission of India in its 61st Report made, as indicated before, certain recommendations, and noticed that the provisions of existing Central Sales Tax Act were insufficient to tax the consignment transfers from one branch to another, as it was beyond the concept of sale, and its recommendations are contained in paragraph 2.23 of Chapter II (at page 66), it recommended that the definition of sale in the Central Sales tax Act, after carrying out the requisite Constitution Amendment be amended somewhat on the lines indicated by them in their report.	None
The Union of India, in part, accepted the recommendations but instead of amending the definition of sales in Central Sales Tax Act inserted a new Entry in the Union List in the shape of Entry 92B and also inserted a new sub clause (4) after sub clause (g) in Art.269(1) of the Constitution.	None
The Parliament also amended clause (3) of Art.269.	None
It appears to us that the effect of the aforesaid amendment is that the field of taxation on the consignment despatch of goods in the course of inter State trade or, commerce expressly come within the purview.	None
of the legislative competence of the Parliament.	None
It is well settled that the nomenclature of the Act is not conclusive and for determining the true character and nature of a particular tax, with reference to the legislative competence of a particular Legislature, the Court will look into its pith and substance.	None
See the observations of Governor General in Council v. Province of Madras (1945) 72 Ind. App. 91 (AIR 1945 PC 98 ).	None
There, Lord Simonds observed as follows For in a Federal Constitution, in which there is a division of legislative powers between Central and provincial legislatures it appears to be inevitable that controversy should arise whether one or other legislature is not exceeding its own, and encroaching on the others Constitutional Legislative Power, and in such a controversy it is a principle, which their Lordships do not hesitate to apply in the present case, that it is not the name of the tax, but its real nature, it is pith and substance, as it has sometimes been said which must determine into what category it falls.	None
We must, therefore, look not to the form but to the substance of the levy.	None
See the observations of the Federal Court in Ralla Ram v. Province of East Punjab AIR 1949 FC 81.	None
Therefore, the nomenclature given by the Haryana Legislature is not decisive.	Reasoning
One has to find out whether in pith and substance, a consignment tax is sought to be imposed, a tax on despatch in the course of inter State trade or commerce.	Reasoning
I have no hesitation in holding that it is a tax on despatch.	Reasoning
Inter State trade or commerce, it has been emphasised, is of great national importance and is vital to the federal structure of our country.	Reasoning
As the imposition of consignment tax requires very deep consideration of all its aspects and certain amount of consensus among the States concerned, especially with regard to the rates, grant of exemption, and ratio relating to distribution of proceeds amongst the States inter se, the actual imposition of tax is bound to take some time till an agreeable solution is found, but that would not make the consignment tax to be in suspended animation in the State, and make us hold that a tax which is in essence a tax on consignment should be taxed by the States by the plea either that otherwise there is ample scope of evasion and further states are without much resources in these days when there is such a tremendous demand on the revenue of the States.	Reasoning
It is well settled that the Entries in the Constitution only demarcate the legislative fields of the respective legislatures and do not confer legislative powers as such.	Reasoning
The tax on despatch of goods outside the territory of the State certainly is in the course of inter State trade or commerce, and in other words, amounts to imposition of consignment tax, and hence the latter part of S.9(1)(b) is ultra vires and void.	Reasoning
In these cases, we are concerned with the validity of the latter part of S.9(1)(b) of the Haryana Act which imposes a tax on despatch of manufactured goods outside the territories of Haryana.	Issue
If it is accepted that S.9(1)(b) is ultra vires, the penalty proceedings would automatically go as they are in substance, based on the violation of S.9(1)(b) of the Act and the consequent proceedings flowing therefrom.	None
It is in that context that in writ petition No. 3834 of 1985, Mr. Soli Sorabjee urged that the attempt and action of the State in imposing tax and attempt to penalise are bad.	None
In this connection, it may be mentioned that before the Full Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on behalf of the State, a statement was made, which has been recorded in (1985) 58 STC 393 at p. 408 (1985 Tax LR 2882 at p. 2890), as follows Counsel appearing for the State of Haryana made a statement that if the Full Bench held that Bata India Limiteds case (1983) 54 STC 226 (1984 Tax LR 2982) did not lay down the correct law and the amendment effected by Act No. 11 of 1984 to S.9 was intra vires, then the provision of subsection (3) of S.24 regarding the rate of tax shall not be enforced and only the old rate will be leviable.	Reasoning
In view of the aforesaid statement, no higher rate except the old rate admissible factually would be applicable.	Reasoning
S.24(3) was introduced by the Haryana Act with retrospective effect from May 27, 1971, which is as follows Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act or any judgment, decree or order of any Court or other authority to the contrary if a dealer who purchases goods, without payment of tax under subsection (1) and fails to use the goods so purchased for the purpose specified therein he shall be liable to pay tax on the purchase value of such goods, at the rates notified under S.15 without prejudice to the provisions of S.50 provided that the tax shall not be levied where tax is payable on such goods under any other provision of this Act.	Reasoning
This provision without making any.	Reasoning
change in the substantive provision purports to give a direction to ignore the judgment, in other words, purports to overrule the judgments, namely, Goodyear (198353 STC 163 (Punj and Hry) and Bata India (1984 Tax LR 2982) (Punj and Hry)), which is beyond the legislative competence of the State Legislature and this provision is void in view of the decision of this Court.	Reasoning
See Shri Prithvi Cotton Mills Ltd. v. Broach Borough Municipality (1969) 2 SCC 283 at p. 286 (AIR 1970 SC 192 at p. 194).	Reasoning
For the same reason, applying the main section instead of S.9(1), S.24 should also fail as amended.	Reasoning
Civil appeal No.	Reasoning
1515/84 is also liable to be dismissed in view of the judgment of this Court in Dy.	Reasoning
Commr. of Sales Tax (Law), Board of Revenue (Taxes) v. Thomas Stephen and Co. Ltd., Quilon (1988) 2 SCC 264 (AIR 1988 SC 997 ), where this Court observed that disposal means transfer of title in the goods to any other person, and therefore it would not include mere despatch to own self or to its agents or to its branch offices or depots.	Reasoning
In the premises, the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Goodyear India Ltd. (1983) 53	Reasoning
STC 163 is correct on merits as well.	Reasoning
In the aforesaid view of the matter, it cannot be held that S.9(1) and subS.(3) of S.24 are constitutionally valid.	Reasoning
In civil appeals Nos. 1633 (NT) of 1985 and 3033/86 which are the appeals by the Food Corporation of India, Mr. Sen submitted that the FCI is a service agency of the Govt.	None
of India	None
and is discharging the statutory functions of distribution of food grains by procuring purchasing from the surplus States and despatching the same to the deficit States in accordance with the policy of the Govt.	None
of India.	None
He further submitted that the Corporation procures food grains from the farmers through commission agents in the Mandis of Haryana and despatch them to its own branches in the deficit States of the country.	None
The Corporation branches in the recipient States supply these stocks to the State agencies fair price shops and also pay tax as per the provisions of the Sales Tax law of the respective States.	None
Some of the stocks are distributed within Haryana for the Public Distribution System (PDS) for which sales tax is charged and deposited with the Sales Tax depot as per the provisions of the Haryana General Sales Tax Act.	None
In case the stocks are also sold in the course of inter State trade or commerce, central sales tax is levied and deposited with the Haryana Sales Tax authorities.	None
Some of the grains are also exported out of India on which there is exemption on payment of any tax.	None
In fact, the points at which the tax is to be levied have been indicated in Schedule D to the Act.	None
It is clear from the perusal of the Schedule that in case of Paddy, the taxable event is the last purchase.	None
Similarly, in case of rice the taxable event is the first sale point in the State.	None
In case of wheat and other cereals the point of taxation is the last sale to the consumer by a dealer liable to pay tax under the Act.	None
In respect of inter State despatch of wheat and other foodgrains by FCI to its own branches, tax is attracted at the time of despatch under S.9(1)(c) of the Haryana Act.	None
S.9 is, therefore, the charging section for taxation in case where the goods are purchased for export.	None
There is no other provision for levy of purchase or sales tax in such cases of export.	None
Incidentally, export has been defined in S.2(e) of the Act which reads as follows 2(e) export means the taking out of goods from the State to any place outside it otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export out of the territory of India No tax is payable under the Haryana Act when exports outside the State take place either in the course of inter State sale or export out of the territory of India.	Reasoning
No tax is therefore payable in regard to export outside India but the tax is payable for sale in the course of inter State trade and commerce i.e. under the Central Sales Tax Act.	Reasoning
It is only when the goods are despatched consigned to the depots of the FCI in other States that tax is levied under S.9 of the Haryana Act.	Reasoning
This is in addition to the sales tax paid by the FCI on the sale of grains in the recipient States.	Reasoning
On perusal of S.14 and 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act, it becomes clear that wheat is one of the commodities specified as declared goods and in respect of which the intention is clear that the tax is payable only once on the declared goods.	Reasoning
In the case of inter State sale if any tax has been paid earlier on declared goods inside the State the same is to be refunded to the dealer who is paying tax on such inter State sales.	Reasoning
On these transactions no tax is leviable in the recipient State, while in case of inter State despatches, the tax is leviable twice.	Reasoning
The appeals of the M are confined to S.9(1)(c), which insofar as it purports to tax export, is beyond the legislative competence of the State of Haryana.	Reasoning
On behalf of the State in Bata India Co. Ltd. v. State of Haryana (1984 Tax LR 2982) (Punj and Hry) (supra), the submission of the State was on the basis that it had power to tax consignment or despatches of goods.	None
But after the 46th Amendment, the State Legislature is incompetent to legislate about consignments despatches otherwise than by way of sale under which no purchase sales tax is leviable under the Haryana Act.	None
It is the Parliament alone which is legislatively competent to enact a legislation on consignment.	None
Now, it is necessary to deal with civil appeals Nos. 416263 85 which deal with the validity of S.13AA of the Bombay Sales Tax Act.	Issue
These appeals are by Hindustan Lever Ltd. and Wipro Products  the appellants herein.	Facts
The appellants, at all material times, manufacture, make and deal in vanaspati, soaps, etc., chemicals and agro chemicals, and they used to purchase various types of VNE oils for their manufacture of vanaspati, soaps and other products.	Facts
Since the appellants had a wide net of distribution of their products all over India, they appointed 40 and more clearing and forwarding agents in the country.	Facts
The appellant used to despatch the goods so manufactured from their factory to the clearing and forwarding agents.	Facts
They also used to purchase VNE oils and other raw materials and paid 4 tax by way of purchase tax under S.3 of the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1959 (hereinafter called the Bombay Act).	Facts
The raw materials are used in the manufacture of said goods and as the said manufactured Goods are despatched outside the State to the several distributing agencies, the appellant companies were held to be liable to pay, under S.13AA of the Act, an additional tax 2 on purchase of the said goods.	Facts
The question, therefore, that arises, is whether the levy, of additional tax at 2 under S.13AA of the Act is a tax on purchases falling under Entry 54 of List II of the 7th the despatch of consignment of the manufactured Schedule or it is a tax on goods outside the State.	Issue
In case of latter, the State Legislature will have no power to impose any tax on such consignment or despatch of goods outside the State.	None
If it is the former, then it will be valid.	Reasoning
The question is that under the true constructions of S.13AA of the Act, on which the imposition of tax is made, or in other words, what is the incidence of that taxation or taxable event?	Reasoning
In both these appeals, namely, civil appeals No. 4162/ 88 and 4163 88, the appellants M s Wipro Products Ltd. and Hindustan Lever Ltd. are contending that the levy is bad.	None
The issue involved in both the appeals is the constitutional validity and legality of the provisions of S.13AA of the Act, which was introduced into the Act by the Maharashtra Act XXVIII of 1982.	Reasoning
The appellant had a factory at Amalner in Jalgaon district in the State of Maharashtra wherein it uses non essential oil purchased by it for the manufacture and transport.	Reasoning
The finished products, namely, vanaspati manufactured by the appellant used to be despatched to their various marketing.	Reasoning
depots in the State of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, U.P., Tamil Nadu and Kerala etc.	Reasoning
On July 1, 1981 the rate of purchase tax payable on VNE oils (falling under Schedule C, part 1 at Entry 35) purchased within the State of Maharashtra from non registered dealers increased from 3 to 4, by the Maharashtra Act 32 of 1981.	Reasoning
S.13AA was introduced into the Act providing for levy of 2 additional purchase tax on the purchase of goods, input goods, specified in part 1 of the Schedule from a non registered dealer if such goods were used in the manufacture of taxable goods within Maharashtra and thereafter the manufactured goods were transferred outside Maharashtra in the manner indicated in the said section.	Facts
The appellants filed writ petitions.	Facts
An order was passed by the Bombay High Court on July 19, 1988 in respect of these two writ petitions by the Wipro Products as well as Hindustan Lever Ltd.	Facts
The decision of the High Court is reported in (1989) 72 STC 69 .	Facts
Dismissing the petitions of the appellants the High Court held that (i) three different phases are contemplated in S.13AA of the Act, namely, the initial purchase of the raw material, the consumption thereof in the manufacture of taxable goods, and the despatch of the manufactured goods out side the State.	Facts
If the goods purchased remain in the same form within the State, the question of levying additional tax would not arise.	Facts
The High Court came to the conclusion that there was no ground to hold that the additional tax was levied on the despatch of goods and was unconnected with the initial transaction of purchase, as it was required to be paid in addition to the sales or purchase tax paid or payable in respect of the same goods which had been so purchased before the conditions specified in S.13AA are fulfilled, (ii) in the context of the other provisions of the Act, a sort of concession is given at the time of purchase on the quantum of tax payable on the purchase of goods which fall under Part	Facts
I of Schedule C.	Facts
However, there is a clear mandate of law, which is clearly understood between seller and buyer, that though tax at the concessional rate is paid, the obligation to pay the additional tax on the happening of certain events, namely, use of such goods in manufacture of finished goods, and despatch of finished goods outside the State, is undertaken by the purchaser and (iii) implicit in the low rates of tax prescribed on raw material attributable to goods in Part I of Schedule C is the condition precedent that to avail of this concession the goods in question are required to be sold in the State after being used in the manufacture of other taxable goods.	Facts
The High Court, further, was of the opinion that a manufacturer who purchases raw material at a concessional rate on the strength of declaration in Form 15 cannot transfer the goods manufactured cut of such raw material outside the State.	Facts
The High Court held that if he does so, he is liable to pay purchase tax at the full rate on the raw material under S.14.	Facts
According to the High Court, similarly, a manufacturer who purchases goods covered in Part III of Schedule C, uses them in the manufacture of other taxable goods which he despatches outside the State, is liable to pay tax at rates ranging from 6 to 15.	Facts
S.13AA, therefore, far from being discriminatory, serves to wipe out any discrimination between the two categories of manufacturers mentioned above and manufacturers purchasing raw material covered by Part I of Schedule C, according to the revenue.	Facts
The High Court was of the opinion that the additional purchase tax leviable under S.13AA of the Bombay Act is on the purchase value of VNE oil used in the manufacture of goods transferred outside the State and not on the value of the manufactured goods so transferred.	Facts
It further held that the tax levied under S.13AA of the Bombay Act falls squarely and exclusively under Entry 54 of the State List in the 7th Schedule to the Constitution of India and the State Legislature was competent to levy it.	Facts
It does not even remotely fall under Entry 92B of the Union List, according to the High Court.	Facts
The High Court was also of the view that the goods taxed under S.13AA of the Bombay Act are consumed in the State as raw material in the process of producing other commodities.	Facts
Hence, there was no question of any hindrance to a free flow of trade bringing into operation Art.301 of the Constitution.	Facts
According to the High Court, the petitioners had not brought forth any material to show how the free flow of trade has been affected by this additional rate of tax and held that S.13AA is not violative of Art.14 of the Constitution and that S.13AA of the Bombay Act and the orders requiring the appellants to pay additional tax 2 on purchase of VNE oil used by them as raw material in the manufacture of goods despatched outside the State were valid.	Facts
The High Court in the judgment appeal has set out the relevant provisions of the Act, which was enacted to consolidate and.	Facts
amend the law relating to levy of tax on the sale or purchase of certain goods in the State of Bombay.	Facts
S.2 contains some of the definitions.	Facts
S.24 deals with authorisations of turnover etc.	Facts
S.13AA of the Bombay Act with which the High Court and these appeals are concerned is in the following terms 13AA.	Facts
Purchase tax payable on goods in Schedule C	Facts
Part I, when manufactured goods are transferred to outside branches.	None
Where a dealer, who is liable to pay tax under this Act, purchases any goods specified in Part I of Schedule C, directly or through Commission agent, from a person who is or is not a Registered dealer and uses such goods in the manufacture of taxable goods and despatches the goods, so manufactured, to his own place of business or to his agents place of business situated outside the State within India, then such dealer shall be liable to pay, in addition to the sales tax paid or payable, or as the case may be, the purchase tax levied or leviable under the other provisions of this Act in respect of purchases of such goods, a purchase tax at the rate of two paise in the rupee on the purchase price of the goods so used in the manufacture, and accordingly the dealer shall include purchase price of such goods in his turnover of purchases in his return under S.32, which he is to furnish next thereafter.	Facts
The questions involved in these appeals are whether S.13AA of the Bombay Act is beyond the legislative competence of the State Legislature and it is violative of Art.14 of the Constitution and thirdly, whether the said provision is violative of Art.301 of the Constitution.	Issue
It was contended on behalf of the appellant that S.13AA of the Act is a charging section and imposes a charge of an Additional rate of 2 in the rupee if the following conditions laid down therein are satisfied (i) the charge is levied upon a dealer who is liable to pay tax under the Act (ii) such a dealer purchases any goods specified in Part I of Schedule C, directly or through commission agent, from a person who is or is not a registered dealer (iii) the goods so purchased are used in the manufacture of taxable goods and (iv) the goods which are so manufactured (and not the goods on which purchase tax had been paid) are despatched to the dealers own place of business or to his agents place of business situated outside the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the appellant, the said section lays down the person who is liable to pay tax, the goods on which the same is leviable and the taxable event which would attract the liability of additional tax of two paise in the rupee, namely the despatch or consignment of goods by the dealer manufacturer outside the State.	None
64.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Dr. Pal, counsel for the appellant, the taxable event is not the purchase of goods as such which is the raw material, but it is the despatch or consignment of goods manufactured by the dealer manufacturer to its own branch outside the State and that thus manufactured goods are different from commercial commodity, distinct and separate from the raw materials on which purchase tax has already been paid.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is well settled, it was reiterated before us, that in case of excise duty, the taxable event is the manufacture of goods and the duty is not directly on the goods but on the manufacture thereof .	Arguments of Petitioner
In case of sales tax, taxable event is the sale of goods.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, though both excise duty and sales tax are levied with reference to the goods, the two are different imposts, in one case the imposition is on the act of manufacture or production while in case of other the imposition is on the act of sale.	Arguments of Petitioner
But in neither case the impose is a tax directly on the goods.	Arguments of Petitioner
See in this connection, the observations of this Court in re The Bill to amend.	Arguments of Petitioner
S.20 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 and S.3 of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944, (1964) 3	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 787 at p. 821 (AIR 1963 SC 1760 at pp. 177576 and M s. Guruswamy and Co. v. State of Mysore (1967) 1	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 548 at p. 562 (AIR 1967 SC 1512 at p. 1520).	Arguments of Petitioner
The power to tax the sale or purchase of goods is different from the right to impose taxes on use or consumption.	Reasoning
According to Dr. Pal, such power to levy sales tax cannot be exercised at the earlier stage of import or manufacture production nor the said power can be exercised at the later stage of use or consumption but only at the stage of sale or purchase.	Reasoning
In respect of sales tax, the right to levy duty would not at all come into being before the time of sale purchase.	Reasoning
Sales tax cannot be imposed unless the goods are actually sold and may not be leviable if there is a transfer in some other form.	Reasoning
See in this connection the observations of the Federal Court in Mukunda Murari Chakravarti v. Pabitramoy Ghosh AIR 1945 FC 1 at p. 22.	Reasoning
Therefore, in this case it is necessary to ascertain what is the taxable event under S.13AA of the Act which attracts duty.	Reasoning
A taxing event is that event the occurrence of which immediately attracts the levy or the charge of tax.,	Reasoning
In the fiscal legislations normally a charge is created.	Reasoning
The mischief of taxation occurs on the happening of the taxable event.	Reasoning
Different taxes have different taxable events.	Reasoning
In the instant case, Dr. Pal canvassed before as that the incidence of the levy of additional tax of two paise in the rupee is not on the purchase of goods but such a levy is attracted only when (a) the goods which so purchased on payment of purchase tax are used in the manufacture of taxable goods and (b) the goods so manufactured are despatched to his own place of business or to his agents place of business outside the State.	Reasoning
Therefore, the incidence of tax is attracted not merely on the purchase but only when the goods so purchased are used in the manufacture of taxable goods and are despatched outside the State.	Reasoning
In our opinion, it was rightly submitted that it is the effect of S.13AA of the Act.	Reasoning
It was further highlighted by Dr. Pal on behalf of the assessee that additional tax is not levied on the goods purchased on payment of purchase tax and despatched outside the State.	Reasoning
The goods which are purchased on payment of purchase tax are used in the manufacture of taxable goods.	Reasoning
What is despatched is not the raw material which have been purchased on payment of purchase tax but a completely different commodity, namely, vanaspati and soap.	Reasoning
If the raw materials as such purchased on payment of purchase tax are despatched outside the State, the additional tax under S.13AA of the Act is not attracted.	Reasoning
Hence, the incidence of additional tax has no nexus with the purchase of the raw materials, as was contended by Mr. S. K. Dholakia, appearing for the State and as held by the High Court.	Reasoning
Purchase tax under S.3 of the Act is attracted when the taxable event i.e. the purchase of goods occurs, but the taxable event for the imposition of additional tax of two paise in the rupee occurs only when the goods so purchased are used in the manufacture of taxable goods and such taxable goods are despatched outside the State by a dealermanufacturer.	None
Dr. Pal drew our attention to some of the observations of this Court in Kedarnath Jute Mfg. Co. Ltd. v. Commr. of Incometax (Central), Calcutta (1971) 82 ITR 363 (AIR 1971 SC 2145 ) and State of Madhya Pradesh v. Shyama Charan Shukla (1972)	Arguments of Petitioner
29 STC 215 at pp.	Arguments of Petitioner
218219 (1972 Tax LR 2368 at p. 2370)	Arguments of Petitioner
.	None
On the other hand, Mr. Dholakia submitted that the submission of the appellant proceeded on the assumption that the liability to pay is the same as the obligation to pay but this was wrong.	Arguments of Respondent
These two are different.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that the obligation to pay is not the same thing as liability to tax and that it was wrong to proceed on the basis that because obligation to pay is a later event, the despatch of goods is the taxable event.	Arguments of Respondent
This is a fallacy, according to Mr. Dholakia.	Arguments of Respondent
In this connection, reliance was placed on the observations of this Court in R. C. Jall v. Union of India 1962 (Suppl) 3	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 436 (AIR 1962 SC 1281 ), where this Court reiterated that subject always to the legislative competence of the enacting authority, the tax can be levied at a convenient stage, so long as the character of the impost is not lost.	Arguments of Respondent
The method of collection does not affect the essence of the machinery of collection for administrative convenience.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance was also placed on the observations of Union of India v. Bombay Tyre International Ltd. (1984) 1	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 347 AIR 1984 SC 420) .	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted by Mr. Dholakia that the correct approach is to first determine whether the State Legislature, having regard to Entry 54 of List II to the 7th Schedule to the Constitution, can levy tax on purchase of a class of goods, which class is to be identified by reference to the condition of use of such goods into other taxable goods and despatch of such taxable goods outside the State.	Arguments of Respondent
lie submitted that if it is accepted that the State could have the power to tax purchases of goods meant for use into manufacture of other taxable goods and despatch outside thereafter, then next question is whether the State enactment (like S.13AA of the Bombay (Act) is so formulated as to come within the framework described.	Arguments of Respondent
He admitted that even if it did, it would still have to be subject to (a) the doctrine of pith and substance, (b) the fundamental rights, and (c) Art.301.	Arguments of Respondent
According to Mr. Dholakia, the Act contains a charging section which is S.3.	Arguments of Respondent
It levies tax on turnover of sales and purchases within S.2(36) and 2(35) respectively of the said Act.	Arguments of Respondent
S.13 of the Act levies tax on purchases in accordance with rates prescribed in Schedule C if the goods are purchased from an unregistered dealer.	Arguments of Respondent
S.13A levies a concessional tax on purchases if the goods are purchased from a registered dealer, provided a declaration in the prescribed form is given under S.12(b) of the Act, if the purchaser buys directly, or one under S.12(d) if the purchaser buys through a commission agent.	Arguments of Respondent
In both the forms the relevant conditions are (a) that the goods fall within Part II of Schedule C and (b) that the goods bought would be used for manufacture of other taxable goods within the State and sold within the State.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Dholakia submitted that on giving the aforesaid declaration, the purchaser would have to pay only 4 tax.	Arguments of Respondent
The rates prescribed in Schedule C are as under Schedule C	None
Part Minimum Rate Maximum Rate I 2 4 II 6 15 The effect of S.13A without S.13AA, according to Mr. Dholakia, was that only those who bought goods which fall into Part II, would have benefited by the declaration, since the rate mentioned in S.13A was 4.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, those buying goods falling within Part 1 of Schedule C had not to give any declaration under S.12(b) or 12(d), as the case may be, and still manufacture the taxable goods and despatch them outside the State.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, as a result of this situation, two results emerged, i.e. (i) the State lost revenue because the goods manufactured with the help of the infrastructure provided by the State escaped further tax, by goods being resold outside the State and (ii) the purchasers of raw materials used by the manufacturers for producing new taxable goods, were not being treated equitably because those whose purchases of goods which fell into Part II had to give a declaration to get tile benefit of reduced rate.	Arguments of Respondent
On the other hand, those whose purchases of goods fell in Part I, need not give such a declaration.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, from the standpoint of the object of encouraging resale within the State, the classification in form of Parts I and II had no rational nexus.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, that construction should be made which may make S.13AA of the Act to avoid this mischief.	Arguments of Respondent
According to Mr. Dholakia, S.13AA speaks of the requirement of additional purchase tax from those who have paid purchase tax, if the object of the purchases is to use the goods falling in Part I of Schedule C for manufacture of taxable goods and the despatch of such goods outside the State.	Arguments of Respondent
He alleged it to be a fair and reasonable construction and it will subserve the purpose of the amendment.	Arguments of Respondent
It is well settled that reasonable construction should be followed and literal construction may be avoided if that defeats the manifest object and purpose of the Act.	Reasoning
See Commr. of Wealth tax, Bihar and Orissa v. Kripashankar Dayashanker Worah (1971) 81 ITR 763 at p. 768 (AIR 1971 SC 2463 at pp. 246667), and Income tax Commissioners for city of London v. Gibbs (1942) 10 ITR (Suppl) 121 at p. 132 (HL).	Reasoning
Mr. Dholakia further submitted that the Statement of Objects and Reasons also helps this construction.	Reasoning
In our opinion, he rightly submitted that because the accounts had to be maintained in a particular manner is no criterion or evidence for determining when the liability arises.	Reasoning
The law is that the liability to tax would be determined with reference to the interpretation of the Statute which creates it.	Reasoning
It cannot be determined by referring to another Statute.	Reasoning
As contended by both the sides, it is well settled that the doctrine of pith and substance means that if an enactment substantially falls within the powers expressly conferred by the Constitution upon the Legislature which enacted it, it cannot be held to be invalid merely because it incidentally encroaches upon matters assigned to another Legislature.	Reasoning
See Kerala State Electricity Board v. Indian Aluminium Co., (1976) 1	Reasoning
SCR 552 (AIR 1976 SC 1031 ) and Praffulla Kumar Mukherjee v. Bank of Commerce Ltd., AIR 1947 PC 60 at p. 65.	Reasoning
Therefore, the proper question which one should address to oneself is, whether S.13AA is in pith and substance, not levying tax on purchase but one levying tax on consignment.	Reasoning
Depending upon the answer to the question, the validity of the action can be judged.	Reasoning
Mr. Dholakia submitted that the Act is in pith and substance an Act levying tax on purchase and not one levying tax on consignment, and referred to the observations of this Court in State of Karnataka v. Ranganatha Reddy, (1978) 1	Reasoning
SCR 641 (AIR 1978 SC 215 ).	Reasoning
According to him, the consignment contemplated in S.13AA is only manufactured goods and no tax is levied under S.13AA in respect of such manufactured goods.	Reasoning
He emphasised as aforesaid It is well settled that while determining nature of a tax, though the standard or the measure on which the tax is levied may be a relevant consideration, it is not the conclusive consideration.	Reasoning
One must have regard to such other matters as decided by the Privy Council in Governor General in Council v. Province of Madras (AIR 1945 PC 98 ) (supra) not by the name of tax but to its real nature, its pith and substance which must determine into what category it falls.	Reasoning
See the observations of R. R. Engineering Co. v. Zila Parishad, Bareilly, (1980) 3	Reasoning
SCR 1 (AIR 1980 SC 1088 ), in re A reference under the Govt. of Ireland Act, 1920 (1936)	Reasoning
AC 352 at p. 358 and Navnitlal C. Javeri v. K. K. Sen, Appellate Asstt.	Reasoning
Commr. of Incometax, D Range, Bombay, (1965) 1	Reasoning
SCR 909 at p. 915 (AIR 1965 SC 1375 at Pp. 137980).	Reasoning
On an analysis we find that the goods which are despatched are different products from the goods on the purchase of which purchase tax was paid.	Reasoning
The Maharashtra legislation has to be viewed in the context of 46th Amendment to the Constitution.	Reasoning
The 46th Amendment introduced Art.269(1)(h) which lays down that the proceeds of the tax on consignment of goods (whether the consignment is to the person making it or to any other person) where such consignment takes place in the course of inter State trade or commerce will be assigned to the States.	Reasoning
The said Amendment also introduced Entry No. 92B in List I of the 7th Schedule.	Reasoning
The said Amendment was made on the consideration of the 61st Report of the Law Commission.	Reasoning
Entry 92B in List I of the 7th Schedule and Art.269(1)(h) of the Constitution bring within its sweep the consignment of goods by a person either to himself or to any other person in the course of inter State trade or commerce.	Reasoning
Art.269(3) gives the power to Parliament to formulate the principles for determining when a consignment of goods takes place in the course of inter State trade or commerce.	Reasoning
If Entry 92B in List I is to be given the widest interpretation, as it should be, it would be clear that the Constitutional changes introduced by the 46th Amendment in Art.269 read with the Entry, the tax on consignment of goods now comes within the exclusive legislative field of Parliament.	Reasoning
The true test to find out what is the pith and substance of the legislation is to ascertain the true intent of the Act which will determine the validity of the Act.	Reasoning
If the Parliament in exercise of its plenary power under Entry 92B of List I imposes any tax on the despatch or consignment of goods, Parliament will be competent to do so.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, not possible to accept the argument that the chargeable event was lying dormant and is activated only on the occurrence of the event of despatch.	Reasoning
The argument on the construction of the enactment is misconceived.	Reasoning
The charging event is the event the occurrence of which immediately attracts the charge.	Reasoning
Taxable event cannot be postponed to the occurrence of the subsequent condition.	Reasoning
In that event, it would be the subsequent condition the occurrence of which would attract the charge which will be taxable event.	Reasoning
If that is so, then it is a duty on despatch.	Reasoning
In that view of the matter, this charge cannot be sustained.	Reasoning
As mentioned hereinbefore, the section.	Reasoning
has been challenged as being violative of Art.14 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
This attack is based on the discrimination between the two types of taxes but in the way we have construed the section, in our opinion, this question does not survive.	Reasoning
It was further submitted by Dr. Pal that S.13AA of the Act is violative of Art.301 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It makes a discrimination between the dealer manufacturer who despatches the goods outside the State and the other dealer manufacturer.	Reasoning
Both the dealer manufacturers purchase the goods on payment of purchase tax and use them in the manufacture of taxable goods.	Reasoning
The incidence of additional tax on the purchase of goods is attracted only when such manufactured goods are despatched outside the State.	Reasoning
If a dealer manufacturer has to despatch the goods outside the State, he has to pay a higher rate of tax and thus he is discriminated as compared to the other dealer manufacturer who purchases the raw material on payment of 4 purchase tax, but despatches the raw material straight outside the State and uses them in the manufacture of goods outside the State.	Reasoning
The High Court held that there was no violation of Art.301 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Reference was made to the decision of this Court in Atiabari Tea Co. Ltd. v. State of Assam, (1961) 1	Reasoning
SCR 809 (AIR 1961 SC 232 )	Reasoning
Automobile Transport (Rajasthan) Ltd. v. State of Rajasthan, (1963) 1	Reasoning
SCR 491 (AIR 1962 SC 1406 )	Reasoning
Andhra Sugars Ltd. v. State of Andhra Pradesh (AIR 1968 SC 599 ) (supra) State of Madras v. N. R. Natraja Mudaliar, (1968)	Reasoning
3 SCR 829 (AIR 1969 SC 147 ) and State of Kerala v. A. B. Abdul Khadir, (1970) 1	Reasoning
SCR 700 (AIR 1970 SC 1912 ).	Reasoning
One has to determine does the impugned provision amount to restriction directly and immediately on the trade or commerce movement?	Reasoning
As was observed by this Court in Kalyani Stores v. State of Orissa, (1966) 1	Reasoning
SCR 865 (AIR 1966 SC 1686 ), imposition of a duty or tax in every case would not tantamount per se to any infringement of Art.301 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Only such restrictions or impediments which directly or immediately impede free flow of trade, commerce and intercourse fall within the prohibition imposed by Art.301.	Reasoning
A tax in certain cases may directly and immediately restrict or hamper the flow of trade, but every imposition of tax does not do so.	Reasoning
Every case must be judged on its own facts and its own setting of time and circumstances.	Reasoning
Unless the Court first comes to the finding on the available material whether or not there is an infringement of the guarantee under Art.301 the further question as to whether the Statute is saved under Art.304(b) does not arise.	Reasoning
The goods taxed do not leave the State in the shape of raw material, which change their form in the State itself and there is no question of any direct, immediate or substantial hindrance to a free flow of trade.	Reasoning
On the evidence adduced, we are in agreement with the High Court that the challenge to the imposition in the background of Art.301 cannot be sustained and, therefore, no question whether such imposition is saved under Art. 304(b) of the Constitution arises.	Reasoning
In the aforesaid view of the matter and for the reasons mentioned hereinbefore, it must be held that so far as the appeals in respect of the Haryana Act are concerned, the High Court was right in the view it took in Goodyear India Ltd.s case (1983) 53 STC 163 (Punj and Har) as well as the views expressed by the High Court in Bata India Ltd. v. State of Haryana, (1984)	Decision
54 STC 226 (1984 Tax LR are correct and are affirmed.	Decision
The views of the High Court expressed in Des Raj Pushap Kumar Gulatis case (1985 Tax LR 2882) (Punj and Har) (FB) (supra) are incorrect for the reasons mentioned hereinbefore.	Decision
The last mentioned judgment and the judgment and orders following passed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court are, therefore, set aside.	Decision
In the premises, civil appeals Nos. 116672/85 (M s. Goodyear India Ltd. v. State of Haryana and Anr.), civil appeal No. 117377 (NT) 85 (Gedore (I) Pvt. Ltd. v. State of Haryana and Anr.), civil appeal	Reasoning
No. 2674/ 86	Decision
(M s. Kelvinator of India Ltd. and Another v. State of Haryana and others), civil appeal No. 1633 (NT)/85 (The F.C.I. v. The State of Haryana and Anr.) and civil appeal No. 3033 (NT)/86 (The F.C.I., Karnal v. The State of Haryana and others) are allowed and the judgment and order of the High Court are set aside.	Reasoning
Civil Appeals Nos. 1512(NT)/84 (State of Haryana and Another v. George Tools (P) Ltd.) and 1515 84 (State of Haryana and Another v. Goodyear India Ltd.) are dismissed.	Decision
Special leave petitions Nos.	Decision
83988402/ 83 are dismissed, and for the reasons mentioned hereinbefore, civil appeals Nos. 4162/88 (M s. Wipro Products Ltd. v. State of Maharashtra and Anr) and 4163/88 (Hindustan Lever Ltd. and Another v. State of Maharashtra and Anr.) are allowed and the judgment and order of the High Court passed therein, are hereby set aside.	Decision
In the facts and the circumstances of this case, the parties will pay and bear the respective costs.	Decision
So far as the civil appeals Nos. 1633/85 and 3033/86 are concerned, wherein the appellants are the Food Corpn. of India, I allow these appeals and setting aside the judgment of the High Court on the ground that tax on despatch or consignment was not within the competence of the State Legislature.	Decision
I am, however, not dealing with or expressing any opinion on the other contentions of the F. C. I. that in view of the nature of its business it was not liable to tax in respect of the sales tax.	Decision
This contention will be decided in the appropriate proceedings.	Decision
So fat as the contention regarding penalty under the Haryana Act, these proceedings fail because the charging provisions fail.	Decision
In so far as the penalty proceedings are impugned on other grounds apart from the failure of the charging provisions, 1 am expressing no opinion on these aspects.	Decision
RANGANATHAN, J  I agree but wish to add a few words.	Reasoning
The question raised in these appeals is a fairly ticklish one.	Reasoning
Simply stated, S.9 of the Haryana General Sales Tax Act, 1974 as well as S.13AA of the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1959, purport only to levy a purchase tax.	Reasoning
The tax, however, becomes exigible not on the occasion or event of purchase but only later.	Reasoning
It materialises only if the purchaser (a) utilises the goods purchased in the manufacture of taxable goods and (b) despatches the goods so manufactured (otherwise than by way of sale) to a place of business situated outside the State.	Reasoning
The legislation, however, is careful to impose the tax only on the price at which the raw materials are purchased and not on the value of the manufactured goods consigned outside the State.	Reasoning
The States describe the tax as one levied on the purchase of a class of goods viz.	Reasoning
those purchased in the State and utilised as raw material in the manufacture of goods which are consigned outside the State otherwise than by way of sale.	Reasoning
On the other hand, according to the respondents assessees this is nothing but a tax on consignment of goods manufactured in the State to places outside the State, camouflaged as a purchase tax, by quantifying the levy of the tax with reference to the purchase price of the goods purchased in the State and utilised in the manufacture.	Reasoning
To me it appeared as plausible to describe the levy as a tax on purchase of goods inside the State (which attaches itself only in certain eventualities) as to describe it as a tax on goods consigned outside the State but limited to the value of the raw material purchased inside the State and utilised therein.	Reasoning
I, therefore.	Reasoning
had considerable doubts not only during the arguments but even some time thereafter as to whether so long as the tax purports to be a tax on purchases and has a nexus, though a little distant, with purchase of goods in the State, the State Governments competent to impose such a tax should not be upheld.	Reasoning
But, on deeper thought, I am inclined to agree with the conclusion of my learned brother.	Reasoning
It is one thing to levy a purchase tax where the character and class of goods in respect of which the tax is levied is described in a particular manner (vide, Andhra Sugars Ltd. v. State, (1968) 1	Reasoning
SCR 705 (AIR 1968 SC 599 ) and a case like the present where the tax, though described as purchase tax, actually becomes effective with reference to a totally different class of goods and, that too, only on the happening of an event which is unrelated to the act of purchase.	Reasoning
The taxable event, if one might use the expression often used in this context is the consignment of the manufactured goods and not the purchase.	Reasoning
I also agree with my learned brother that the decision in State of Tamil Nadu v. Kandaswami, (1975) 36 STC 191 (AIR 1975 SC 1871 ),though rendered in the context of an analogous provision does not touch the issue in the present case.	Reasoning
The above distinction becomes significant particularly in the background of the constitutional amendments referred to in the judgment of my learned brother.	Reasoning
These indicate that there were efforts at sales tax avoidance by sending goods manufactured in a State out of raw materials purchased inside other States by way of consignments rather than by way of sales attracting tax.	Reasoning
This situation lends force to the contention of the assessees that the States unable to tax the exodus directly, attempted to do so indirectly by linking the levy ostensibly to the purchases in the State.	Reasoning
Viewing the impugned statutory provisions from the perspectives indicated above, I agree with my learned brother that the appeals have to be allowed as held by him.	Decision
