 Jagannadha Rao, J. Leave granted.	None
In trade mark cases, the tension is between protectionism on the one hand and allowing competition on the other.	None
In the late nineteenth century where law was regarded as a science, the legal formalists laid down principles and legal rules, treating trade mark as property.	None
In the beginning of this century, legal realists laid emphasis on pragmatic considerations of economic policies and real world results and the likelihood of confusion.	None
Of late, the tension between protectionism and competition has increased.	None
(See Vol. 59 Law and Contemporary Problems, 1996, No. 2 P. 5 at P. 14) (A Personal note on Trade Mark etc. by Milton Handler).	None
This is a plaintiffs appeal against the judgment of the Gujarat High Court in A.F.O. No. 203 of 1999 dated 24.8.1999, by which the High Court of Gujarat allowed the appeal preferred by the respondentdefendant and set aside the temporary injunction which was initially granted on 24.2.99 and which was confirmed on 23.3.99.	None
The injunction was sought by the appellant to restrain the respondent from using the word PICNIC as it allegedly amounted to infringement of the appellants registered trade mark for the use of the word PIKNIK.	None
The suit was on the basis of infringement of trade mark and also on the basis of passing off.	None
The brief facts of the case are as follows The appellant company (plaintiff) claimed that it started business in 1988 in four products like potato, chips, potato wafers, cornpops nd preparations made of rice and rice flour.	Facts
In January 1989 it started using the trade mark PIKNIK.	Facts
It applied for registration on 17.2.1989 of the said word in class 29 (for preserved dried and cooked fruit vegetables etc. including all goods included in class 29) under application No.	Facts
505531B. Plaintiff also applied for registration of same trade mark in class 30 (for tea, coffee, corns, jaggery atc.	Facts
including confectionery chocolates, honey etc.)	Facts
under application 505532.	Facts
A third application under same name was (for beverages, beers, mineral and irrigated water) under application No. 505533.	Facts
Registration was granted on 29.7.1994 after advertisement on 1.9.93.	Facts
The appellant renewed the trade mark last for 7 years from 17.2.1996.	Facts
Respondentdefendant was found using the mark PICNIC for chocolates.	Facts
Appellant gave notice on 16.3.1998.	Facts
Respondent replied on 7.4.98.	Facts
Thereafter, the appellant filed the suit on 18.2.1999 based on alleged infringement of trade mark 505532 and passing off.	Facts
Pending the suit, appellant applied for temporary injunction.	Facts
(The respondent filed an application on 19.3.1999 in the Bombay High Court for rectification and the same is pending).	None
The respondentdefendant contended in this interlocutory application that CADBURUYS PICNIC was introduced in 1998 for chocolates.	Facts
It was registered earlier under No. 329970 in class 30 of 4th schedule in 1977 for dairy milk chocolates, wafers bar, dairy milk chocolate, confectionery etc.	Facts
(The said trade mark expired after 7 years and was not renewed).	Facts
Defendant applied for rectification of the plaintiffs trade mark by application dated 19.3.99.	Facts
Defendant had also filed a subsequent application for registration of CADBURY PICNIC in August 1999 (appln.	Facts
No. 712676).	Facts
It pleaded that CADBURY PICNIC andor PICNIC andor label with the said word was registered by the defendants parent company in over 110 countries all over the world and the defendant had transborder reputation and goodwill.	Facts
The plaintiff could not claim monopoly in the variations of the ordinary dictionary word PICNIC or any misspelling thereof.	Facts
Plaintiff had never intended to do business in chocolates.	Facts
Its main business was in dyes and chemicals.	Facts
Its business in food products was ancillary and fell under NAMKINS and PAPADS.	Facts
Even otherwise, both labels were different in essential features.	Facts
The registration by a plaintiff was only of a label and could not be and was not of the word PIKNIK.	Facts
The said word was a misspelling of an ordinary dictionary word and was not distinctive.	Facts
Registration thereof under section 9 was invalid.	Facts
There was also delay in filing the suit on 18.2.1999 and injunction could not be granted.	None
The trial Court held that the plaintiffs registration of the word PIKNIK (including for chocolates) was and is in force, that the defendants earlier registration had expired, that the defendant did not oppose registration by plaintiff, that there was no unreasonable delay in filing the suit, that injunction in these circumstances could not be refused even if there was some delay, plaintiff had a prima facie case and balance of convenience was in plaintiffs favour.	Facts
It held that the defendants mark was deceptively similar within section 2(1)(d) of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958, that confusion could be created in the minds of purchasers either because the marks were similar visually or ocularly or phonetically.	Facts
Here there was clear phonetic resemblance.	Facts
The contention that what was registered was the label and not the word PIKNIK could not be accepted.	Facts
The essential features of the trade marks were similar.	Facts
Section 2(1)(f) referred to mark as including a device brand, heading, label, ticket, name, signature, word, letter, numeral or any combination thereof.	Facts
Even if the essential features of the words PIKNIK were taken into consideration the defendants mark PICNIC was deceptively and phonetically similar.	Facts
The defendant had cleverly designed the worked PICNIC by change of spelling and the word was so designed on is label in large letters.	Facts
The plaintiffs trade mark was registered under class 30 which included chocolates.	Facts
Section 9(1)(d) or (e) would not help the defendant inasmuch as the plea that this was a common dictionary word was not correct.	Facts
In fact the defendant had himself registered the word PICNIC in 1977 in India and the same word was registered in other countries.	Facts
Defendant had again applied in India in 19981999 for registration of the same word.	Facts
Section 28 of the Act conferred a statutory right on plaintiff on account of registration.	Facts
The said mark was registered without opposition under section 21.	Facts
On the above reasoning, the trial Court granted temporary injunction in favour of the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
On appeal by the defendant, the High court reversed the judgment and held that the word PIKNIK could not be called an essential feature.	Facts
The plaintiffs label consisted of the peculiar script of the word PIKNIK in a curved fashion with the caricature of a little boy with a hat in between the words K and N.	Facts
The script and the figure of the little boy were the essential features and not the word PIKNIK.	Facts
The plaintiffs label had to be looked at as a whole.	Facts
Plaintiff was marketing potato chips and potato wafers in a polythene pouch and not chocolates, though plaintiff had registration under class 30 for chocolates.	Facts
Defendant was marketing under trade label Cadburys PICNIC in a polythene pouch and hence both marks where different.	Facts
Defendant was not using the plaintiffs label with the caricature of a boy.	Facts
It was true there was phonetic similarity but the word PIKNIK was a misspelling of the common dictionary word PICNIC and hence could not be the subject of any proprietary right.	Facts
Here the products too were different and there was no confusion.	Facts
The fact that the plaintiff was using the word PIKNIK could not be compared to cases where well known trade names were under use  like Cadbury  and if the defendant used the word PICNIC along with the word Cadbury, for a different product, there could be no infringement.	Facts
Cadbury was a household name in India and defendant had been marketing chocolates since 1948.	Facts
The said word had almost become synonymous with chocolates in India as in the case of Cadbury Dairy Milk, Cadbury Five Star etc.	Facts
The same was true with Cadbuty Picnic.	Facts
There was absolutely no scope for deception.	Facts
There was neither infringement nor passing off.	Facts
Based on this reasoning the High Court allowed the appeal of the respondentdefendant and set aside the order of temporary injunction.	Facts
In this appeal, learned senior counsel for the appellantplaintiff Sri P. Chidambaram contended that the defendants, by merely filing a rectification application on 19.3.99, after the appellants filed the suit on 18.2.99 for injunction based on infringement, could not scuttle the suit or this application for temporary injunction.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the present suit or in the application, the respondent could not raise a defence that the registration of the plaintiffs trade mark was invalid on the ground that the word PIKNIK was not distinctive and that it was akin to a dictionary word or that the trade mark did not satisfy various clauses of section 9(1).	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 31 raised a presumption of validity of plaintiffs registered mark.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was sufficient if the plaintiffs mark had became distinct even by the actual date of registration.	Arguments of Petitioner
For purposes of section 31, the deeming clause in section 23(1) did not apply.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under section 32 of the Act, if seven years had elapsed from the date of registration (i.e. date of application for registration as deemed by section 23), then the plea of invalidity of registration, namely, that plaintiffs registration of trade mark was not distinctive, could not be raised in this suit nor in defence to this application nor even in the rectification proceedings.	Arguments of Petitioner
Seven years had elapsed by 17.2.96, long before the defence in the suit was raised as also by the date of filing of the rectification application on 19.3.1999.	Arguments of Petitioner
Date of the registration in section 32 unlike the position under section 31(2) was to be deemed as date of application for registration in view of section 23(1).	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence the defendant could not be permitted to raise any plea that the word PIKNIK was not distinctive by 17.2.89 within section 9.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this context, the decision of this Court in National Bell Co. v. Metal Goods Mfg. Co., 1970(3) SCC 665 was relevant.	Arguments of Petitioner
learned counsel also argued that under section 2(j) and 2(v), mark included a label.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any event, the plaintiffs trade mark was valid as it fell within the various clauses of section 9, even if it be assumed that section 32 did not bar the defendants plea.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the rights conferred by registration of the trade mark under section 28, it must be held that the trade mark was infringed within section 29 inasmuch as the defendant used its mark which was deceptively similar to the plaintiffs trade mark.	Arguments of Petitioner
Apart from the right arising out of infringement, the defendant was guilty of passing off of the defendants goods as the plaintiffs goods.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the principles laid down in American Cyanamid v. Ethicon Ltd., 1975(1) All E.R. 504 (HL), it is sufficient if a triable issue is raised.	Arguments of Petitioner
No prima facie case need be proved.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence the appellant should be granted temporary injunction.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, learned senior counsel for the defendant Sri Dushyant Dave contended that even if in view of section 111(5) of the Act, the temporary injunction applications could go on, the defence that plaintiffs trade mark was invalid as it did come within section 9 could be raised in these interlocutory proceedings.	Arguments of Respondent
Plaintiffs trade mark was invalid as the conditions in section 9 were not satisfied and in any event, being akin to a dictionary word, it was not distinctive within section 9(1)(e).	Arguments of Respondent
The presumption under section 31(2) did not apply and the bar in section 32 also did not apply since seven years had not elapsed from the date of registration, by the time the defence was raised in this suit that plaintiffs mark was not distinctive.	Arguments of Respondent
In any event, the case fell within the exceptions mentioned in section 32 and in particular the one in section 32(e).	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel also contended that there was no deception within section 29 read with section 2(d).	Arguments of Respondent
The plaintiffs mark was the entire label and not the word PIKNIK alone.	Arguments of Respondent
The conditions specified in section 29 were not satisfied.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, the defendants mark PICNIC had crossborder reputation in 110 countries over a long period and the use of the said word in India would not infringe the plaintiffs trade mark nor would such use amount to passing off defendants goods as the plaintiffs goods.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of Colgate Palmolive (India) Ltd. v. Hindustan Lever Ltd., 1999(7) SCC 1, the relative strength of the case above need be considered.	Arguments of Respondent
On these contentions, the following points arise for consideration Whether the defendant could, in the present interlocutory proceedings, based on infringement and passing off, raise any defence that the registration of plaintiffs mark was itself invalid because the plaintiffs mark did not satisfy the ingredients of clauses (a) to (e) of section 9(1) and was, in particular, not distinctive as required by section 9(1)(e) ?	Issue
(2) Whether, on the other hand, plaintiff could rely on the presumption in section 31 and also contend that under Section 32 the validity of the registration of the plaintiffs mark had become conclusive on the expiry of 7 years long before defence was raised in the suit (such time reckoned from date of application for rectification under section 23(1)) and whether there were any exceptions to the said bar ?	Issue
(3) Whether, assuming that section 31 and section 32 did not come in the way of the defendant, on merits the word PIKNIK was not distinctive and did not satisfy section 9(1)(e) ?	Issue
(4) For grant of temporary injunction, should the Court go by principle of prima facie case (apart from balance of convenience) or comparative strength of the case of either parties or by finding out if the plaintiff has raised a triable issue?(5)	Issue
Whether, assuming that plaintiffs registration was valid, the comparative strength of the case on the question of infringement is in favour of plaintiff ?	Issue
(6) Whether, alternatively, the plaintiff had made out that for grant of temporary injunction treating the suit as a passing off action, the relative strength of the case, was in plaintiffs favour ?	Issue
(7) Whether there was unreasonable delay on the part of the plaintiff in filing suit and whether the High Court was justified in interfering in appeal in interlocutory proceedings ?	Issue
Points 1, 2 and 3 The provisions of section 111 deal with stay of proceedings where the validity of registration of the trade mark is questioned etc	Reasoning
In the present case, while the plaintiff  appellant has filed the present suit on 18.2.99 for permanent injunction etc. against the defendantrespondent on the ground of infringement and passing off, the defendant has filed an application for rectification on 19.3.99 in the High Court of Bombay.	Reasoning
Now Section 111 is intended to protect the plaintiff.	Reasoning
The defendant, by filing a rectification proceeding late in the High Court cannot preclude the plaintiff from seeking interim relief in view of section 111(5).	None
Under section 111(1)(a), if in any suit the defendant pleads invalidity under section 9 of the plaintiffs trade mark, then, (1) the Civil Court trying the infringement suit shall stay the suit if rectification proceedings are pending, (ii) if no such rectification proceedings are pending, the Civil Court has to raise an issue as to validity of plaintiffs trade mark and refer the parties to the High Court to seek rectification.	None
Under clause (2) if a rectification application is filed as directed, the suit is to be stayed till rectification proceedings are over.	None
If such an application is not filed for rectification, it shall be deemed that the plea is abandoned by defendant.	None
Under section 111(5), even if the suit is to be stayed pending rectification proceedings, the plaintiff can file and have interlocutory applications for temporary injunction etc. to be disposed of.	None
The point raised by the learned senior counsel for the appellant Sri P. Chibambaram is that the policy of the Act is not to allow the defendant to raise any issue relating to the invalidity of the plaintiffs trade mark as a defence in a Civil Suit for infringement at any time at the pleasure of the defendant and that a question as to validity can be decided only in rectification proceedings, provided, on facts, such proceedings are in time (as prescribed in section 32) and are otherwise maintainable.	None
If such issues cannot be raised in the main suit itself, they cannot be raised even in interlocutory proceedings.	None
It is pointed out that even where no rectification proceedings are pending, if a question relating to the invalidity of registration of plaintiffs mark is raised in defence, the Court has to direct the defendant to move for rectification and is to adjourn the suit.	None
Learned senior counsel, in this context, pointed out the distinction, between the Trade Marks Act and the Patents Act, by referring us to section 107 of the Patents Act, 1970.	None
That section reads as follows Section 107  Defences, etc. in suits for infringement (1)	None
In any suit for infringement of a patent, every ground on which it may be revoked under section 64 shall be available as a ground for defence.(2)	None
In any suit for infringement of a patent by the making, using or importation of any machine, apparatus or other article or by the using of any process or by the importation, use or distribution of any medicine or drug, it shall be a ground for defence that such making, using, importation or distribution is in accordance with any one or more of the conditions specified in section 47.	None
It is true that under section 107 of the Patents Act, it is permissible in any suit for infringement of a patent, for the defendant to raise all pleas in defence which he could have raised under section 64 of the Act for revocation and there is no similar provision in the Trade Marks Act, 1958.	None
However, the question is as to what extent under the Trade Marks Act, 1958 sections 31 and 32, come in the way of the defendant.	None
Now section 9(1) sets down the various requisites for a valid registration of a trade mark in parts A and B of the register.	None
Section 9(1) is to be read alongwith section 9(3) which defines the word distinctive used in section 9(1)(e).	None
Section 9 reads as follows Section 9 Requisites for registration in Parts A and B of the register (1) A trade mark shall not be registered in Part A of the register unless it contains or consists of at least one of the following essential particulars, namely (a) the name of a company, individual or firm represented in a special or particular manner(b) the signature of the applicant for registration or some predecessor in his business(c) one or more invented words(d) one or more words having no direct reference to the character or quality of the goods and not being, according to its ordinary signification, a geographical name or a surname or a personal name or any common abbreviation thereof or the name of a sect caste or tribe in India(e) any other distinctive mark.(2) (3) For the purposes of this Act, the expression distinctive in relation to the goods in respect of which a trade mark is proposed to be registered means adapted to distinguish goods with which the proprietor of the trade mark is or may be connected in the course of trade from goods in the case of which no such connection subsists either generally or, where the trade mark is proposed to be registered subject to limitations, in relation to use within the extent of the registration.	None
For the present, we are not referring to the other subslauses of section 9.	None
If a trade mark does not satisfy section 9, it is well settled that it is to be treated as invalid.	None
The defence of the defendantrespondent based on section 9(c), (d) and (e) is that the word PIKNIK is akin to a dictionary word and is not an inventive word nor a word having no direct relation to the character or quality of goods nor a distinctive word and hence subclauses (c), (d) (e) of section 9(1) do not apply and the registration of the plaintiffs trade mark is in itself invalid.	Arguments of Petitioner
This brings us to sections 31 and 32 for deciding whether the plea can be raised in defence in these interlocutory proceedings.	None
Section 31 states that registration is to be prima facie evidence of validity.	None
Section 31 reads as follows Section 31 Registration to be prima facie evidence of validity (1) In all legal proceedings relating to a trade mark registered under this Act (including application under section 56), the original registration of the trade mark and of all subsequent assignments and transmissions of the trade mark shall be prima facie evidence of the validity thereof.(2)	None
In all legal proceedings as aforesaid a trade mark registered in Part A of the register shall not be held to be invalid on the ground that it was not a registrable trade mark under section 9 except upon evidence of distinctiveness and that such evidence was not submitted to the Registrar before registration, in all legal proceedings as aforesaid, if it is proved that the trade mark had been used by the registered proprietor or his predecessor intitle as to have become distinctive at the date or registration.	None
Section 32 deals with conclusive proof of validity of the trade mark and reads as follows Section 32 Registration to be conclusive as to validity after seven years Subject to the provisions of section 35 and section 46, in all legal proceedings relating to a trade mark registered in Part A of the register ( including applications under section 56), the original registration of the trade mark shall after the expiration of seven years from the date of such registration, be taken to be valid in all respects unless it is proved (a) that the original registration was obtained by fraud or(b) that the trade mark was registered in contravention of the provision of section 11 or offends against the provision of that section on the date of commencement of the proceedings or(c) that the trade mark was not at the commencement of the proceedings, distinctive of the goods of the registered proprietor.	None
While section 31 raises a presumption as to validity of registration, section 32 bars any such question being raised after seven years, subject of course to some exceptions.	None
In our view, any decision on the question of validity of the appellants trade raised as a defence in the present application filed under Order 39 Rule 1 CPC will seriously jeopardise a decision on the same issue now pending in the rectification proceedings filed by the respondent in the Bombay High Court.	None
We would therefore not go into the question of validity or distinctiveness of the plaintiffs trade mark nor into the applicability of National Bell Co. Case (1970(3) SCC 665) as those issues are to be decided in the rectification proceedings.	Reasoning
We are of the view that the case before us can be disposed of by considering whether there is prima facie any deception and hence infringement and whether there is any passing off.	Reasoning
Points 1, 2 and 3 are therefore not decided.	None
Point 4	None
This point deals with the principles applicable for grant of temporary injunction in trade mark cases.	None
before American Cyanamid Co. v. Ethicon Ltd., 1975(1) All E.R. 504 (HL) it was customary for the Courts to go into prima facie case in trade mark cases for grant or refusal of temporary injunction.	None
But in American Cyanamid, it was observed that it was sufficient if a triable issue be presented by the plaintiff and the merits need not be gone into.	None
The said judgment was referred to by this Court in Wander Ltd. v. Antox India (P) Ltd., 1990 Supple.	None
SCC 727.	None
The judgment in Wander Ltd. was followed in Power Control Appliances v. Sumeet Machines (P) Ltd., 1994(2) SCC 448.	None
But in Gujarat Bottling Co. Ltd. v. Coca Cola Co., 1995(5) SCC 545, this Court again adverted to the prima facie case principle while granting temporary injunction.	None
All these rulings have been reviewed recently in Colgate Palmolive (India) Ltd. v. Hindustan Lever Ltd., 1999(7) SCC 1.	None
It was pointed to this Court that there was considerable criticism of the principles laid down in American Cyanamid (See also Floyd, Interlocutory injunctions since Cynamid (1983 E 1 PR 238), (Cole, Interlocutory Injunctions in U.K. Patent Cases (1979.	None
E 1 PR 71) (See also Edenborough M and Tritton, American Cyanamid revisited (1996 E1 PR 234) and Philipps in 1997 JBL 486).	None
This Court referred to the recent judgment of Laddie in UK.	None
In U.K., Laddie, J. reconsidered the principle recently and explained American Cyanamid in his judgment in Series 5 Software v. Clark, 1996(1) All ER 853 (Ch. D).	None
The learned Judge observed that in American Cyanamid, Lord Diplock did not lay down that the relative strength of the case of each party need not be gone into.	Reasoning
Thereafter, this Court in Palmolive case has referred to Laddie, Js view and said hat the view of Laddie, J. is correct and that American Cyanamid cannot be understood as having laid down anything inconsistent with the old practice.	Reasoning
We may also add that now the courts in England go into the question whether the plaintiff is likely or unlikely to win in the suit i.e. into the comparative strength of the case of the rival parties  apart from the question of balance of convenience.	Reasoning
See again Laddie, J. in Barclays Bank Inc v. R.B.S. Advanta, 1998 RPC 307 where such a question is posed and where Series 5 Software was followed.	Reasoning
Therefore, in trade mark matters, it is now necessary to go into the question of comparable strength of the cases of either party, apart from balance of convenience.	Reasoning
Point 4 is decided accordingly.	None
Point 5 Under this point, we propose to trace the legal principles applicable to cases of infringement with particular reference to dissimilarities in essential features of a devise or mark.	None
Under section 29 of the Act, a plaintiff in a suit on basis of infringement has to prove not only that his trade mark is infringed by a person who is not a registered proprietor of the mark or a registered user thereof but that the said person is using a mark in the course of his trade, which is identical with or deceptively similar to the trade mark of the plaintiff, in such manner as to render the use of the mark likely to be mistaken as the registered trade mark.	None
Under section 2(d), the words deceptively similar are defined as follows a mark shall be deemed to be deceptively similar to another mark if it so nearly resembles that other mark as to be likely to deceive or cause confusion.	None
Para the whole of it, the latter uses one or more of its essential features.	None
The identification of an essential feature depends partly on the courts own judgment and partly on the burden of the evidence that is placed before it.	None
Ascertainment of an essential feature is not to be by ocular test alone it is impossible to exclude consideration of the sound of words forming part or the whole of the mark.	None
(Kerly, Law of Trade Marks and Trade Names, 11th Ed. 1983, para 14.21).	None
It is no answer to a charge of infringement  as contrasted with a passing off action  that the defendants mark, whilst including the plaintiffs mark, includes other matters too.	None
Still less is it an answer that by something outside that actual mark the defendant has distinguished his goods from those of the plaintiff  by adding his own name (Kerly para 14.22).	None
But this principle is not absolute.	None
It is also accepted that addition of his own name by defendant is an element to be considered and may turn the scales in favour of the defendant.	None
In same para 14.22, Kerly says But the use of the defendants name as part of the mark complained of is an element to be considered and in some cases it has turned the scale in his favour (Jewsbury Brown v. Andrew Atkinson, 1911(28).	None
R.P.C. 293).Jewsbury case was a case relating to infringement.	None
(Of course, in para 14.25 Kerly also refers to cases where addition of defendants a name has not turned the scales).	None
So far as resemblance in words is concerned, Justice Parker in Pianotist Cos Application (Pianola) 1906(23) RPC 774 (at 777) has stated as follows You must take the two words.	None
You must judge of them, both by their look and by their sound.	None
You must consider the goods to which they are to be applied.	None
You must consider the nature and kind of customer who would be likely to buy the goods.	None
In fact, you must consider all the surrounding circumstances and you must further consider what is likely to happen if each of these trade marks is used in a normal way as a trade mark for the goods of the respective owners of the marks.	None
If considering all those circumstances, you come to the conclusion that there will be confusion  that is to say, not necessarily that one man will be injured and the other will gain illicit benefit, but there will be confusion in the mind of the public which will lead to confusion in the goods  then you may refuse registration, or rather you must refuse registration in that case.	None
This dictum has been quoted with approval by this Court in Amritdhara Pharmacy v. Satya Deo Gupta, AIR 1963 SC 449 and Roche v. Geoffrey Manners and Co. Pvt. Ltd., AIR 1970 SC 2062 .	None
Devices and Composite Marks But the considerations relating to words, however, differ appreciably when device marks are to be compared or when a device mark is to be compared with a word mark.	None
(Kerly para 17.07).	None
After referring to the factors mentioned by Parker, J. in the above case, it is stated in Halsburys Laws of England, (Vol. 38, 3rd Ed., para 986) as follows These considerations differ to some extent when device marks are being compared or when a device mark is compared with a word mark.	None
Dissimilarity in essential features in devices and composite marks more important than some similarity It has been stressed for the appellant that since the word PICNIC is used by defendant while plaintiff is using its misspelling PIKNIK, this is an essential feature, which is similar phonetically or visually, and there is therefore infringement.	None
It is argued that presence of even one essential feature in defendants mark is sufficient.	None
In our opinion, in the case of devices and composite marks, the above principle has not been strictly applied.	None
The English Courts have laid emphasis more on dissimilarities in essential features rather than on similarity.	None
The whole thing principle is based on first impression as seen by the Court.	None
We shall now refer to these principles laid down in the English cases.	None
When the question arises whether a mark applied for bears such resemblance to another mark as to be likely to deceive, it should be determined by considering what is the leading character of each.	None
The one might contain many, even most, of the same elements as the other, and yet the leading, or it may be the only, impression left on the mind might be very different.	None
On the other hand, a critical comparison of the two marks might disclose numerous points of difference, and yet the idea which would remain with any person seeing them apart at different times might be the same.	None
Thus, it is clear that a mark is infringed if the essential features, or essential particulars of it, are copied.	None
In cases of device marks, especially, it is helpful before comparing the marks, to consider what are the essentials of the plaintiffs device.	None
(Kerly para 17.08)	None
The trade mark is the whole thing  the whole picture on each has to be considered.	None
There may be differences in the parts of each mark, but it is important to consider the mode in which the parts are put together and to judge whether the dissimilarity of the part or parts is enough to make the whole dissimilar.	None
It has been said that if the only resemblances between two marks are in parts which are common, so that the owner of the one has taken nothing which is peculiar to the other, then there is at all events no infringement, at any rate unless the plaintiff had a distinctive arrangement of the common elements.	None
But this approach is hardly suited to a comparison of word marks and even in relation to label marks or other features of getup, it would be more appropriate to consider the case as a whole, with due regard to the background provided by any other marks shown to be in use (Kerly para 17.17).	None
Therefore, the question is whether the defendant has,  so far as the common feature is concerned,  copied any distinctive arrangement of the common elements ?	None
Or has copied any unusual feature of the common element (Crispins Appln.	None
1917(34) RPC 249) (see Kerly para 17.18, fn.77).	None
The marks, names or getup concerned must always be considered as the whole thing, as the true test is whether the totality of the impression given both orally and visually is such that it is likely to cause mistake, deception or confusion (Halsbury Vol. 38,)	None
3rd Ed.	None
para 987).	None
We next come to the crucial test laid down by Evershed M.R. in Broadheads Application 1950(67) RPC 209 at 215 which was a case relating to opposition to registration.	None
The Master of Rolls followed the observations of Lord Russell in Coca Cola Co. of Canada v. Pepsi Cola Co. of Canada (which was an infringement action) (1942(59) RPC 127) and observed as follows Where you get a common denominator, you must in looking at the competing formulas, pay much more regard to the parts of the formulas which are not common  although it does not flow from that that you must treat the words as though the common part was not there at all.	None
Where common marks are included in the rival trade marks, more regard is to be paid to the parts not common and the proper course is to look at the marks as whole, but at the same time not to disregard the parts which are common.	None
Halsbury (3rd Ed.	None
para 992) also says where there are common elements to two or more marks, more regard must be paid to the parts that are not common but the common parts cannot be disregarded.	None
(Coca Cola Co. of Canada Ltd. v. Pepsi Cola Co. of Canada Ltd., (1942(1) All.	None
E. R. 615(PC).	None
The above principles have been laid down in English law.	None
Decisions of this Court  infringement, essential features and the whole thing This Court has laid down in Corn Products Refining Co. v. Shangrila Food Products Ltd., AIR 1960 SC 142 , which was a case of infringement, that it would be for the court to decide whether the marks were similar.	None
It was observed that in deciding the question of similarity between two marks, the marks have to be considered as a whole.	None
Again in K.K. Chinna Krishna Chettiar v. Sri Ambal and Co. and Anr., AIR 1970 SC 146 , where the question of similarity arose at the stage of opposition to the appellants mark by the respondents (who had registered trade mark), it was observed that it is for the court to decide the question on a comparison of the competing marks as a whole.	None
The resemblance between the two marks must be considered with reference to the ear as well as the eye.	None
In Roche and Co. v. Geoffrey Manners and Co. Pvt. Ltd., AIR 1970 SC 2062 , the question of deceptive similarity was raised by the appellant (a registered trade mark holder) for removal of the respondents trade mark, in rectification proceedings.	None
(The decision is relevant in an infringement action except that the burden of proof in an infringement action is on the plaintiff while in an application for rectification it is the applicant).	None
It was again observed in the above case that it is necessary to apply both the visual and phonetic tests.	None
It is also important that the marks must be compared as whole.	None
The true test is whether the totality of the proposed trade mark is such that it is likely to cause deception or confusion or mistake in the minds of persons accustomed to the existing trade mark.	None
In yet another case of an infringement action, Parle Products (P) Ltd. v. J.P. and Co., Mysore, AIR 1972 SC 1359 , the question was in relation to a wrapper with the words Gluco biscuit and the particular colour scheme, the general get up used for sale of Parles Gluco Biscuit so printed on the wrapper.	None
There was a farmyard with a girl in the centre carrying a pail of water and cows and hens around her in the background of a farmhouse.	None
The defendant was selling biscuits with the name Glucose Biscuits.	None
The wrapper contained picture of a girl supporting with one hand a bundle of hay on her head and carrying a sickle and a bundle of food, with cows and hens around, in the background of a building.	None
This court held, on those facts, that in an infringement action, it was sufficient if there was overall similarity as would mislead a person usually dealing with one to accept the other if offered to him.	None
Here the packets were of the same size and the colour scheme and design were having close resemblance.	None
The marks should not be kept side by side and compared.	None
The essential features of both marking were a girl with one arm raised and carrying something in the other while the cows or hens were near her, in the background of a house.	None
The decision of this Court in Durga Dutt Sharma v. Navaratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories, AIR 1965 SC 980 , was a case where the respondentregistered holder of the trade mark opposed the appellants registration.	None
The question of deception arose in that context.	None
Both were using the word Navratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories in connection with sale of Ayurvedic medicines.	None
It was held that for judging whether the later mark was deceptive, it was sufficient if the similarity was so close visually, phonetically or otherwise.	None
If the essential features had been proved to be adopted by the opposite party, that was sufficient.	None
The fact that the getup, packing and other writing or marks on the goods or packets showed marked difference was not material, though such features could be material in passingoff action and the defendant might escape lability by showing some additional matter to distinguish his goods.	None
The purpose of comparison was to see if the essential features were different.	None
The object of inquiry was to find out if the defendants mark was as a whole similar to the plaintiffs registered mark.	None
Ruston and Hornsby Ltd. v. The Zamindara Engineering Co., 1969(2) SCC 727 was again a case of an infringement action.	None
It was admitted that the words Ruston and Rustam were deceptively similar and the fact that to the latter, India was suffixed made no difference.	None
The court pointed out the difference between an infringement action and a passing off action and held that if there was colourable imitation, the fact that the get up was different was not relevant in an infringement action though it might have had relevance in a passing off action, and in the context referred to Saville Perfumery Ltd. v. Jump Perfect Ltd., 1941(58) RPC 147 (161).	None
Broadly, under our law as seen above, it can be said that stress is laid down on common features rather than on differences on essential features, except for a passing reference to a limited extent in one case.	None
Differences in essential features are also relevant under Indian Law It appears to us that this Court did not have occasion to decide, as far as we are able to see, an issue where there were also differences in essential features nor to consider the extent to which the differences are to be given importance over similarities.	None
Such a question has arisen in the present case and that is why we have referred to the principles of English Law relating to differences in essential features which principles, in our opinion, are equally applicable in our country.	None
Application of Principles to facts of this case If differences in essential features are relevant, the next question is as to what is the position on facts.	None
The first question therefore is as to what, on the facts, are the essential features of the plaintiffs mark ?	None
It is clear that apart from the word PIKNIK, the essential features are also the special script of these words in block letters and the curve in which these words are inscribed and the caricature of the boy with a hat occurring between the words K and N on the plaintiffs mark.	Facts
On the other hand, the defendants mark contains the words PICNIC in a straightline, the script is normal and the words Cadbury are written above the words PICNIC.	None
Neither the peculiar script nor the curve nor the boy with a hat are found in the defendants mark.	None
It is true that there is phonetic similarity and use of the word PINCIC.	None
But what is the effect of the dissimilarities ?	None
This is the crucial part of the case.	None
It is here that sufficient care is to be taken in applying the principles.	None
In our opinion, in the present case, three tests to which reference has been made above, have to be applied.	None
The first one is this Is there any special aspect of the common feature which has been copied ?	None
The second test will be with reference to the mode in which the parts are put together differently ?	None
That is to say whether the dissimilarity of the part or parts is enough to mark the whole thing dissimilar (Kerly para 17.17 referred to above).	None
The third test is whether when there are common elements, should one not pay more regard to the parts which are not common, while at the same time not disregarding the common parts ?	None
What is the first impression ?	None
As to the first test, whether there are any peculiar features of the common part which have been copied, it is seen that the peculiar aspects of the common features of PIKNIK namely the peculiar script and the curve have not been copied then, as to the second test, we have to see the dissimilarity in the part or parts and if it has made the whole thing dissimilar.	None
Absence of the peculiar script in the letters, the curve and the absence of the caricature of the boy with a hat, in our view, have made the whole thing look dissimilar.	None
Then, as to the third test, the above three dissimilarities have to be given more importance than the phonetic similarity or the similarity in the use of the word PICNIC for PIKNIK.	None
That is how these three tests have to be applied in this case.	None
On first impression, we are of the view that the dissimilarities appear to be clear and more striking to the naked eye than any similarity between the marks.	None
Thus, on the whole, the essential features are different.	None
Learned senior counsel for the respondent had also strongly relied Registrar, Trade Marks v. Ashok Chandra Rakhit, AIR 1955 SC 558 to contend that, in any event, the plaintiff had registered only the label and not the words PIKNIK.	None
In that case, this Court quoted (P. 565) the following words from Pinto v. Badman 1891(8) RPC 181 (at 191) to the following effect The truth is that the label does not consist of each particular part of it, but consists of the combination of them all.	None
We do not propose to go into the applicability of the above decision to the case before us.	None
There, the question was whether the Registrar could insist that a particular word contained in the label should be disclaimed.	None
In the result, we hold on the question of infringement that on an examination of the relative strength of the pleas, as stated in Palmolive, it is shown that the chances, on facts, are more in favour of the defendant rather than in favour of the plaintiff and that the plaintiff is not entitled to temporary injunction.	None
This finding on facts is confined to these interlocutory proceedings only.	None
Deceive or confuse Our discussion under this head is again in the context of the relevant strength of the case of the parties and for the purposes of the temporary injunction as laid down in Palmolive.	None
Section 29 uses the words deceptively similar and section 2(1)(d) defines deceptively similar as situations where one is deceiving others or confusing others.	None
We have to keep in view the distinction between the words deceive and confuse used in section 2(1)(d).	None
These words which occur in the various trade mark statutes have been explained in ParkerKnoll v. Knoll International, (1962 RPC 265 (HL) (pp. 273274) by Lord Denning as follows Looking to the natural meaning of the words, I would make two observations First, the offending mark must so nearly resemble the registered mark as to be likely to deceive or cause confusion.	None
It is not necessary that it should be intended to deceive or intended to cause confusion.	None
You do not have to look into the mind of the user to see what he intended.	None
It its probable effect on ordinary people which you have to consider.	None
No doubt, if you find that he did not intend to deceive or cause confusion, you will give him credit for success in his intentions.	None
You will not hesitate to hold that his use of it is likely to deceive or cause confusion.	None
But if he had no such intention, and was completely honest, then you will look carefully to see whether it is likely to deceive or cause confusion before you find him guilty of infringement.	None
Secondly, to deceive is one thing.	None
To cause confusion is another.	None
The difference is this when you deceive a man, you tell him a lie.	None
You make a false representation to him and thereby cause him to believe a thing to be true which is false.	None
You may not do it knowingly, or intentionally but still you do it, and so you deceive him.	None
But you may cause confusion without telling him a lie at all, and without making any false representation to him.	None
You may indeed tell him the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, but still you may cause confusion in his mind, not by any fault of yours, but because he has not the knowledge or ability to distinguish it from the other pieces of truth known to him or because he may not even take the trouble to do so.	None
The above passage has been quoted by this Court in Roche v. Geoffrey Manners AIR 1970 SC 2062 (2064).	None
Therefore if, in a given case, the essential features have been copied, the intention to deceive or to cause confusion is nor relevant in an infringement action.	None
Even if, without an intention to deceive, a false representation is made, it can be sufficient.	None
Similarly, confusion may be created unintentionally but yet the purchaser of goods may get confused for he does not have the knowledge of facts which can enable him not to get confused.	None
In the present case, this aspect need not detain us inasmuch as we have already held that the relative strength of the case is in favour of the defendant.	None
Further this aspect is connected with the type of buyer whom the law has in mind and we shall be presently dealing with this aspect also.	None
It is not necessary for us to go into the contention of the respondent that the defendant was using the word PICNIC in other countries over a long period along with the word Cadbury and that a question of transborder reputation protects the defendant.	None
Reliance is placed for the respondent on N.R. Dongre v. Whirlpool Corporation and Anr., 1996(5) SCC 714 for this purpose.	None
We do not think it necessary to go into this aspect.	None
Such question, if raised in the suit, can be gone into on its own merits.	None
For the above reasons, we hold that on the question of the relative strength, the decision must go in favour of the defendant that there is no infringement and the High Court was right in refusing temporary injunction.	None
Point 5 is decided accordingly.	None
Point 6 Passing off and infringement  differences Here the point is in relation to relative strength of the parties on the question of passing off.	None
As discussed under point 5, the proof of resemblance or similarity in cases of passing off and infringement are different.	None
In a passing off action additions, get up or tradedress might be relevant to enable the defendant to escape.	None
In infringement cases, such facts do not assume relevance.	None
See Durga Dutt Sharma v. Navratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories Ltd., AIR 1965 SC 980 Ruston Hornsby Ltd. v. The Zamindara Engineering Co., AIR 1970 Supple.	None
SCC 727.	None
If is possible that, on the same facts, a suit for passing off may fail but a suit for infringement may succeed because the additions, the get up and trade dress may enable a defendant to escape in a passing off action.	None
A somewhat similar but interesting situation arose in a dispute between two companies.	None
In N.S. Thread Co. v. James Chadwick Bros. AIR 1948 Mad. 181, the passing off action failed.	None
But thereafter James Chadwick Co. succeeded in an appeal arising out of the registration proceedings and the said judgment was confirmed by this Court in N.S. Thread Co. v. James Chadwick Bros., AIR 1953 SC 357 .	None
It was held that the judgment in the passing off case could not be relied upon by the opposite side in latter registration proceedings.	None
In the same tone, Halsbury (Trade Marks, 4th Ed., 1984 Vol. 48, para 187) says that in a passing off action the degree of similarity of the name, mark or other features concerned is important but not necessarily decisive, so that an action for infringement of a registered trade mark may succeed on the same facts where a passing off action fails or vice versa.	None
As to viceversa, Kerly says (para 16.12), an infringement action may fail where plaintiff cannot prove registration or that its registration extends to the goods or to all the goods in question or because the registration is invalid and yet the plaintiff may show that by the imitating the mark or otherwise, the defendant has done what is calculated to pass off his goods as those of plaintiff.	None
In Schweppes Ltd. v. Gibbens, 1905(22) RPC 601(HL)	None
Lord Halsbury said, while dealing with a passing off action that the whole question in these cases is whether the thing  taken in its entirety, looking at the whole thing  is such that in the ordinary course of things a person with reasonable comprehension and with proper insight would be deceived.	None
Defendants name on his goods is an indication of there being no case of passing off In the present case, defendants goods contain the words Cadbury on their wrapper.	None
As per the principle laid down in Fisons Ltd. v. E.J. Godwin, (1976) RPC 653, the occurrence of the name Cadbury on the defendants wrapper is a factor to be considered while deciding the question of passing off.	None
Similarly in King Co. Ltd. v. Gillard and Co. Ltd.,	None
22 RPC 327 amd CadburySchweppes Pty. Ltd. v. The Pub.	None
Squash Ltd., (1981)	None
RPC 429, it was held that the presence of defendants name on his goods was an indication that there was no passing off, even if the trade dress was similar.	None
The fact that the defendants wrapper contains the word Cadbury above the words PICNIC in therefore a factor which is to be taken into account.	None
Buyers ignorance and chances of being deceived As to scope of a buyer being deceived, in a passing off action, the following principles have to be borne in mind.	None
Lord Romer, LJ has said in Payton Co. v. Snelling Lampard Co., 1900(17) RPC 48 that it is a misconception to refer to the confusion that can be created upon an ignorant customer.	None
The kind of customer that the Courts ought to think of in these cases is the customer who knows the distinguishing characteristics of the plaintiffs goods, those characteristics which distinguish his goods from other goods in the market so far as relates to general characteristics.	None
If he does not know that, he is not a customer whose views can properly be regarded by the Court.	None
See the cases quoted in N.S. Thread Co. v. Chadwick Bros., AIR 1948 Mad.	None
481 , which was a passing off action.	None
In Schweppes case, Lord Halsubury said, if a person is so careless that he does not look and does not treat the label fairly but takes the bottle without sufficient consideration and without reading what is written very plainly indeed up the face of the label, you cannot say he is deceived.	None
In our view, the trial Court in the present case went wrong in principle in holding that there was scope for a purchaser being misled.	Reasoning
The conclusion was arrived at without noticing the above principles.	Reasoning
In the result, on the question of passing off, the relative strength of the case again appears to us to be more in defendants favour.	None
Point 6 is decided accordingly.	None
The issue of laches of the appellantplaintiff, though relied upon by the respondent, does not, in view of our finding at Point 5, assume any significance in this case.	None
Coming to the question whether the appellate court was right in interfering with the discretion of the trial Court and in vacating infunction, we are of the view that, on facts, interference was justifiable.	None
If wrong principles were applied by the trial Court under Order 39, Rule 1 CPC, the appellate Court could certainly interfere in interlocutory proceedings under Order 39, Rule 1 CPC.	None
Here, the trial Court gave importance to phonetic similarity and did not refer to the differences in essential features.	None
It did not also have the wary customer in mind.	None
On the other hand, the High Courts approach in this behalf was right as it noticed the dissimilarities in the essential features and concluded that viewed as a whole, there was neither similarity nor scope for deception nor confusion.	None
(No doubt both Courts went into the validity of the plaintiffs registered mark and into the question of distinctiveness of the word PIKNIK under section 9(1)(e).	None
But in our view that was not necessary).	None
Thus, when wrong principles were applied by the trial Court while refusing temporary injunction, the High Court could certainly interfere.	None
Point 7 is decided accordingly.	None
In the result, the appeal is dismissed.	None
We, however, reiterate the direction given by High Court in regard to maintenance of accounts and the undertaking to be given by the defendant for damages, if any, that may be granted in the suit, in case the suit succeeds.	None
We make it clear that the above findings on facts are for the purpose of the temporary injunction and will not come in the way of the Court in the suit to decide the matter on the evidence produced.	None
Appeal dismissed.	Decision
