 Krishna Iyer, J. (on behalf of P.N. Bhagwati J. and himself).1.	None
We fully endorse what has been said by our learned brother Chandrachud, J., but the profound depths of equal justice in public employment touched in his final paragraph (with which we ardently agree)	None
impel a few concurring observations of our own.2.	None
In this unequal world the proposition that all men are equal has working limitations, since absolute equality leads to procrustean cruelty or sanctions indolent inefficiency.	None
Necessarily, therefore, an imaginative and constructive modus vivendi between commonness and excellence must be forged to make the equality clause viable.	None
This pragmatism produced the judicial gloss of classification and differentia, with the byproducts of equality among equals and dissimilar things having to be treated differently.	None
The social meaning of Arts.	None
14 to 16 is neither dull uniformity nor specious talentism.	None
It is a process of producing quality out of larger areas of equality extending better facilities to the latent capabilities of the lowly.	None
It is not a methodology of substitution of pervasive and solvenly mediocrity for activist and intelligent  but not snobbish and uncommitted  cadres.	None
However, if the State uses classification casuistically for salvaging status and elitism, the point of no return is reached for Arts.	None
14 to 16 and the Courts jurisdiction awakens to deaden such manoeuvres.	None
The soul of Art. 16 is the promotion of the common mans capabilities overpowering environmental adversities and opening up full opportunities to develop in official life without succumbing to the sophistic argument of the elite that talent is the privilege of the few and they must rule, wriggling out of the democratic imperative of Arts.	None
14 and 16 by the theory of classified equality which at its worst degenerates into class domination.3.	None
The relevance of these abstract remarks to the present case is obvious.	None
Engineers with diplomas are likely to be drawn from poorer families and not necessarily because they are incapable of making the degree grade.	None
An opportunity for them to level up, through experience and selfstudy, with their more fortunate degreeholding meritocracy, is of the essence of equal opportunity for people with dragging backgrounds.	None
If economically, and therefore educationally, handicapped men distinguish themselves, they are heroes and should be honoured and not kept humble through life on account of the original sin of inferior qualifications.	None
Indeed, diploma holders in that Himalayan State were good enough, in the past decades, to go to the top of the ladder, as the facts of this case admittedly disclose.	None
However, in those young days few engineering graduates in the State and few engineering colleges in the country compelled Government to recruit diploma holders and promote them to higher offices.	None
But circumstances have changed, needs have increased, availabilities have expanded and inequalities at the educational level have been partly eliminated.	None
And so personnel policy, with an eye on efficiency, has changed.	None
While we agree with counsel that chill penury should not repress their noble rage, still during our transitional developmental stage the sacrifice of technical mental stage the sacrifice of technical proficiency at the altar of wooden equality is an unreasonable injury the State cannot afford to selfinflict.	None
The technology of equal opportunity is to assume diffusion of talent and to afford inservice facilities, through relaxation of rules and otherwise, to the weaker members to acquire better skills.4.	None
The wise and tonic words of our learned brother, if we may say so with great deference, are however portentous.	None
While striking a balance between the long hunger for equal chance of the lowlier and the disturbing concern of the community for higher standards of performance, the State should not jettison the germinal principle of equality altogether.	Reasoning
The dilemma of democracy is as to how to avoid validating the abolition of the difference between the good and the bad in the name of equality and putting to sleep the constitutional command for expanding the areas of equal treatment for the weaker ones with the dope of special qualifications measured by expensive and exotic degrees.	Reasoning
These are perhaps metajudicial matters left to the other branches of Government, but the Court must hold the Executive within the leading strings of egalitarian constitutionalism and correct, by judicial review, episodes or subtle and shady classification grossly violative of equal justice.	Reasoning
That is the heart of the matter.	Reasoning
That is the note that rings through the first three fundamental rights the people have given to themselves.5.	Reasoning
Miniclassifications based on microdistinctions are false to our egalitarian faith and only substantial and straightforward classifications plainly promoting relevant goals can have constitutional validity.	Reasoning
To overdo classification is to undo equality.	Reasoning
If in this case Government had prescribed that only those degree holders who had secured over 70 marks could become Chief Engineers and those with 60 alone be eligible to be Superintending Engineers or that foreign degrees would be preferred we would have unhesitatingly voided it.6.	Reasoning
The role of classification may well recede in the long run, and the finer emphasis on broader equalities implicit in the concluding thought of the leading judgment will abide.	Reasoning
The decision in this case should not  and does not  imply that by an undue accent on qualifications the Administration can cut back on the larger tryst of equalitarianism or may hijack the founding and fighting faith of social justice into the enemy camp of intellectual domination by an elite.	Reasoning
The court, in extreme cases, has to be the sentinel on the quivive.	Reasoning
Chandrachud, J.(on behalf of Ray, C.J., Palekar J., and himself)7.If persons drawn from different sources are integrated into one class, can they be classified for purposes of promotion on the basis of their educational qualifications?	Issue
That is the issue for consideration before us.8.	None
Respondents, who are Diploma Holders in Engineering, filed in the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution to challenge the validity of certain Service Rules framed by the Government of Jammu and Kashmir.	Facts
A Learned Single Judge dismissed the petition but in appeal a Division Bench of the High Court took the view that the impugned rules were violative of Article 14 and 16 of the Constitution.	Facts
The correctness of that view is challenged by the State of Jammu and Kashmir in this appeal by special leave.9.	Facts
Respondents, who are serving in different branches of the Engineering Service of the appellants, were appointed as Assistant Engineers between 1960 and 1966 by promotion from the Subordinate Engineering Service.	Facts
Their conditions of service were then governed by the rules published under Order No. 1328C of 1939.	Facts
Those rules, to the extent material, read thusThe following rules prescribing the procedure relating to recruitment to the gazetted service are sanctionedxx xx	Facts
xx(3)	Facts
Special qualifications  Under Rule 18 of the Kashmir Civil Services Rules (General), the following special qualifications are prescribed in the case of candidates for direct recruitment or recruitment by transfer, as the case may be, to the services mentioned belowKASHMIR ENGINEERING SERVICECategory 2 (Assistant of Class II.	Facts
Engineer).DirectDegree in Civil Engineering of any recognised University.	Facts
By transfer (i) Degree or Diploma in Civil Engineering of any recognized University or Upper Subordinates Diploma of any recognized Colleges of Engineering and(ii) Service as a Supervisor for a period of not less than 5 years on duty.	Facts
Class III Ground Engineer.	Facts
DirectCertificate of Ground Engineering prescribed by the Government of India.	None
KASHMIR ELECTRICAL SERVICECategory 2 (Assistant of Class II.	None
Engineering of Electrical Engineer).Direct(i) Degree in Electrical Engineering of any recognized University, and(ii) Practical training in an Electrical Power Station.	Facts
By transfer (i) Degree of Diploma in Electrical Engineering of any recognised University and(ii) Practical experience in an Electrical Power Station.10.	Facts
The rules further provided that appointments by transfer (that is, by promotion) to the cadre of Divisional Engineers (now known as Executive Engineers) could be made only from the cadre of Assistant Engineers.	Facts
Promotions to the cadre of Assistant Engineers could, in turn, be made only from the cadre of Supervisors in the Subordinate Service.	Facts
Recruitment by transfer was to be made on the basis of merit, ability and the previous record of the candidates, seniority being considered only in case of equality of merit, ability and excellence of record.	Facts
The scale of pay admissible to the Assistant Engineers was 30020500.11.	Facts
In 1962, the appellants undertook a general revision of pay scales and framed Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services (Revised Pay) Rules, which were gazetted on August 6, 1962.	Facts
Rule 12 divided the Assistant Engineers into two categories, datewise.	Facts
Those appointed prior to August 1, 1960 were placed in Grade I while those appointed subsequently were placed in Grade II, regardless of whether appointments to the posts of Assistant Engineers were made directly or by promotion and whether the incumbents held a degree or a diploma.	Facts
Those in Grade I were put in the pay scale of 300700 while those in Grade II were put in the scale of 250600.	Facts
Officers in Grade II were entitled to go into Grade I after completing two years service, subject to the availability of vacancies.12.	Facts
A further revision of pay scales was effected under the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services (Revised Pay) Rules, 1968 which were gazetted on February 27, 1968.	Facts
Under R. 10(IIB) (i), Assistant Engineers were granted a new pay scale of Rs. 30030540EB35610QB35 700, but it was provided that the QB at Rs. 610/ will not be crossed by Assistant Engineers with Diploma Course This rule was challenged by the respondents in so far as it denied to them an opportunity to cross the qualification bar.13.	Facts
Then came the Jammu and Kashmir Engineering (Gazetted) Service Recruitment Rules, 1970, gazetted on October 12, 1970.	Facts
These rules provide for appointments to the gazetted posts in various branches of the Engineering service of the appellants and supersede the old rules on the subjects.	Facts
By Rule 3 (f) promotion is defined to mean promotion from one class, category or grade to another class, category or grade on the basis of merit and efficiency, seniority being considered only when merit was equal.	Facts
Under the Schedule annexed to these Rules, recruitment to the cadre of Executive Engineers and above was to be made only by promotion.	Facts
But as regards promotion to the posts of Executive Engineers, and to those only, it was provided that only those Assistant Engineers would be eligible for promotion who possessed a bachelors degree in engineering or held the qualification of A.M.I.E., Sections A and B and who had put in at least 8 years service in the J and K Engineering (Gazetted) Service.	Facts
This is the second of the two Rules impugned in this appeal.14.	Facts
The case of the respondents as disclosed in their petition was that under the rules of 1939, Assistant Engineers were entitled to be promoted to the higher cadre on the basis of their merit and record and no distinction was made between degreeholders and diplomaholders for the purposes of such promotion.	None
The discrimination made by the impugned rules between degreeholders and diplomaholders was arbitrary and capricious because academic or technical qualifications could be germane only at the time of recruitment.	None
For purposes of promotion, efficiency and experience alone must count.	None
Respondents further contended that once the Government appointed candidates with different academic or technical qualifications to the same cadre, having the same pay scale and similar duties, such candidates would form one class and they cannot be further classified for purposes of promotion on the basis of their educational qualifications.	None
The impugned rules, according to the respondents, brought about a reduction in rank, deprived them of equal opportunity in the matter of promotion and were violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India.	None
Finally, the respondents contended by their petition that it was not competent to the Government to change the service conditions unilaterally to the disadvantage of its employees so as to deprive them of their vested right of promotion by giving retrospective effect to the rules.15.	None
The appellants, by their counter affidavit, traversed these averments thus It was within the competence of the Government to grant a higher pay scale to persons with higher educational qualifications.	None
Under the Rules of 1968 a higher slab of pay was sanctioned for Assistant Engineers with higher educational qualifications and the qualification bar was imposed so as to exclude diplomaholders with a view to ensuring administrative efficiency in the Engineering Service.	None
Under the Rules of 1970, the Governor had laid down the method of recruitment and had prescribed qualifications for appointment to various categories of posts in the engineering department keeping in view the nature of duties and responsibilities attached to those posts.	None
Classification, for purposes of promotion, on the basis of educational qualifications has an intelligible differentia and was therefore not violative of the constitutional provisions of equality.	None
Lastly, the appellants disputed that the application of the Rules to existing employees made the Rules retrospective in any sense.16.	None
The learned single judge who heard the petition rejected the respondents contentions but that judgment was reversed in appeal by a Division Bench of the High Court.	None
Briefly, the Division Bench held that though it was open to the Government to make a reasonable classification of its employees,.	None
where the employees were grouped together and integrated into one unit without reference to their qualifications, they formed a single class in spite of initial disparity in behalf of their educational qualifications and no discrimination could thereafter be made between them on the basis of such qualifications that the discrimination made under the Rules of 1968 between diplomaholders and degreeholders was unconstitutional and that having prescribe a diploma or degree in engineering a diploma or degree in engineering with practical experience as a minimum qualification for entry into service, it was not open to the Government to prescribe higher educational qualifications for promotion from the cadre of Assistant Engineers to that of Executive Engineers.	Arguments of Respondent
The main judgment was delivered by Mufti Bahauddin J. who confined his view to the vice attaching to the rules be reason of their retrospectivity.	None
The learned Chief Justice, by a concurring judgment, struck down the rules for all time.	None
They were, according to him, bad in so far as they applied to existing employees and would be bad if applied to those who may join the cadre in future.17.	None
The learned Attorney General, who appears on behalf of the appellants, contends that it is always open to the Government to classify its employees so long as the classification is reasonable and has nexus with the object thereof that a classification cannot be held to infringe the equality clause unless it is actually and palpably arbitrary that if there are different sources of recruitment, the employees recruited from different sources can either be allowed different conditions of service and so continue to belong to different classes or the Government may integrate them into one class that once the employees are integrated into one class, they cannot, for purposes of promotion, be classified again into two different classes on the basis of differences existing at the time of recruitment but, after integration into one class, the employees can, in the matter of promotion, be classified into different classes on the basis of any intelligible differentia as, for example, educational qualifications, which has a nexus with the object of classification, namely efficiency in the post of promotion.18.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Setalvad who led for the Respondents contended that neither at the time of appointment to the post of Assistant Engineers not for the purposes of promotion to the post of Divisional Engineers (now called Executive Engineers), was any distinction made by the rules of 1939 between diplomaholders and degreeholders that rules governing conditions of service could not be changed retrospectively to classify employees to the basis of educational qualifications so as to deny promotion to the diplomaholders that there was in the instant case no nexus between the classification and the object sought to be achieved thereby and in fact the classification defeated that object that having regard to the fact that from 1939 to 1970 holders of Diplomas and Degrees were treated alike, the onus lay heavily on the appellants to prove the necessity for differentiating between the two, which onus was not discharged on the record of the case, and that, if the object of the classification was the attainment of efficiency, the Government could have achieved that object, and perhaps in a better measure, by making talent, experience and efficiency as criteria for determining promotional opportunities.19.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Gupte, appearing for Respondents 18 to 29, took the stand that once there is a class of equals no discrimination can be made among them on any ground whatsoever.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, if chances of promotion are denied to a few within a class of equals, there is an inherent vice attaching to the classification and no question of the reasonableness of the new yardstick can possibly arise.	Arguments of Respondent
In the alternative, Mr. Gupte contended, possession of a degree qualification was not a reasonable basis for segregating degreeholders and diplomaholders into watertight compartments.	Arguments of Respondent
The impugned rule of 1970 was made in the awareness that only some Assistant Engineers were graduates and the facts of the case disclosed no reasonable basis for differentiation between them and the diplomaholders in regard to promotion as Executive Engineers, Finally, the learned counsel contended that the unreasonableness of the classification was patent from the fact that a degree qualification was prescribed as a precondition for promotion to the post of Executive Engineers but not to higher posts.	Arguments of Respondent
There was neither rhyme nor reason in a rule which permitted a Diplomaholder to occupy the post of a Superintending Engineer or the highest post of a Chief Engineer but barred him from being considered for a lower post in the cadre of the Executive Engineers.20.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Garg, who appears for one of the respondents, laid particular stress on the question of onus.	Arguments of Respondent
He contended that the heavy onus which lay on the appellants to justify the classification remained wholly undischarged in the context, especially, of the background that between 1939 and 1970 holders of Degrees and Diplomas were treated alike in the matter of promotion from the post of an Assistant Engineer to that of an Executive Engineer.	Arguments of Respondent
A system which had stood the test of time, could not, reasonably, be proclaimed unworkable or inefficacious unless the entire context and requirements of the system had undergone some significant change.	Arguments of Respondent
Of that, says the counsel, there is just no evidence21.	Arguments of Respondent
Most of the arguments advanced for the respondents have been considered and rejected by this Court in some cases or the other but before coming to that, a few points may be kept out of way.22.	None
An argument which found favour with Mufti Bahauddin J., one of the learned Judges of the Letters Patent Bench of the High Court,and which was repeated before us is that the retrospective application of the impugned rules is violative of Arts.	None
14 and 16 of the Constitution.	None
It is difficult to appreciate this argument and impossible to accept it.	None
It is wrong to characterise the operation of a service rule as retrospective for the reason that it applies to existing employees.	None
A rule which classifies such employees for promotional purposes.	None
undoubtedly operates on those who entered service before the framing of the rule but it operates in future, in the sense that it governs the future right of promotion of those who are already in service.	None
The impugned rules do not recall a promotion already made or reduce a payscale already granted.	None
They provide for a classification by prescribing a qualitative standard, the measure of that standard being educational attainment.	None
Whether a classification founded on such a considerations suffers from a discriminatory vice is another matter which we will presently consider but surely, the rule cannot first be assumed to be retrospective and then be struck down for the reason that it violates the guarantee of equal opportunity be extending its arms over the past.	None
If rules governing conditions of service cannot ever operate to the prejudice of those who are already in service, the age of superannuation should have remained immutable and schemes of compulsory retirement in public interest ought to have foundered on the rock of retroactivity.	None
But such is not the implications of service rules nor is it their true description to say that because they affect existing employees they are retrospective.	None
It is well settled that though employment under the Government like that under any other master may have a contractual origin, the Government servant acquires a status on appointment to his office.	None
As a result, his rights and obligations are liable to be determined under statutory or constitutional authority which, for its exercise, requires no reciprocal consent.	None
The Government can alter the terms and conditions of its employees unilaterally and though in modern times consensus in matters relating to public services is often attempted to be achieved consent is not a precondition of the validity of rules of service, the contractual origin of the service notwithstanding.23.	None
The argument on the question of onus is largely founded on the context of facts obtaining in the case.	None
It is urged that for purposes of promotion to higher posts diplomaholders were treated on a par with degreeholders from 1939 to 1970 and therefore, the onus must be on the appellants to prove facts and circumstances which necessitated a radical departure from the old and established order.	None
If diplomaholders could competently fill higher posts for over three decades, reasons leading to the rule which renders them wholly ineligible even from being considered for promotion to the post of Executive Engineer ought to be established by the appellant, and, it is urged, no evidence is disclosed in support of such reasons.24.	Arguments of Respondent
This submission is erroneous in its formulation of a legal proposition governing onus of proof and it is unjustified in the charge that the record discloses no evidence to show the necessity of the new rule.	None
There is always a presumption in favour of the constitutionality of an enactment and the burden is upon him who attacks it to show that there has been a clear transgression of the constitutional principles. 1959	None
SCR 279 , 297 (b) (AIR 1958 SC 538 ).	None
Ram Krishan Dalmia v. Justice S. R. Tendolkar.	None
A rule cannot be struck down as discriminatory on any a priori reasoning.	None
That where a party seeks to impeach the validity of a rule made by a competent authority on the ground that the rules offend Art.	None
14 the burden is on him to plead and prove the infirmity is too well established to need elaboration.	None
The burden thus is on the respondents to set out facts necessary to sustain the plea of discrimination and to adduce cogent and convincing evidence to prove those facts for there is a presumption that every jactor which is relevant or material has been taken into account in formulating the classifications State of Uttar Pradesh v. Kartar Singh, 1964 (6) SCR 679 , 687 (AIR 1964 SC 1135 ).In	None
G. D. Kelkar v. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, (1967) 2	None
SCR 29 at p. 34 (AIR 1967 SC 839 ), Subba Rao C. J. speaking for the Court has cited three other decisions of the Court in support of the proposition that unless the classification is unjust on the face of it, the onus lies upon the party attacking the classification to show by placing the necessary material before the Court that the said classification is unreasonable and violative of Art.	None
16 of the Constitution.25.	None
Thus, it is no part of the appellants burden to justify the classification or to establish its constitutionality.	Reasoning
Formal education may not always produce excellence but a classification founded on variant educational qualifications is, for purposes of promotion to the post of Executive Engineer, to say the least, not unjust on the face of it and the onus therefore cannot shift from where it originally lay.26.	Reasoning
Respondents have assailed the classification in the clearest terms but their challenge is purely doctrinaire Academic or technical qualification can be germane only at the time of initial recruitment for purposes of promotion efficiency and experience alone must count  this is the content of their challenge.	Reasoning
The challenge, at best, reflects the respondents opinion on promotional opportunities in public services and one may assume that if the roles were reversed, respondents would be interested in implementing their point of view.	Reasoning
But we cannot sit in appeal over the legislative judgment with a view to finding out whether on a comparative evaluation of rival theories touching the question of promotion, the theory advocated by the respondents is not to be preferred.	Reasoning
Classification is primarily for the legislature or for the statutory authority charged with the duty of framing the terms and conditions of service and if, looked at from the standpoint of the authority making it, the classification is found to rest on a reasonable basis, it has to be upheld.27.Our reason for saying this is to emphasize that the respondents ought to have furnished particulars as to why, according to them, the classification between diplomaholders and degreeholders is not based on a rational consideration having nexus with the object sought to be achieved.	Reasoning
In order to establish that the protection of the equal opportunity clause has been denied to them, it is not enough for the respondents to say that they have been treated differently, from others, not even enough that a differential treatment has been accorded to them in comparison with others similarly circumstanced.	Reasoning
Discrimination is the essence of classification and does violence to the constitutional guarantee of equality only if it rests on an unreasonable basis.	Reasoning
It was therefore incumbent on the respondents to plead and show that the classification of Assistant Engineers into those who hold diplomas and those who hold degrees is unreasonable and bears no rational nexus with its purported object.	Reasoning
Rather than do this, the respondents contended themselves by propounding an abstract theory that educational qualifications are germane at the stage of initial recruitment only.	Reasoning
Omission to furnish the necessary particulars was construed by this Court in two cases as indicating that the plea on unlawful discrimination had no basis, Katra Education Society v. State of Uttar Pradesh, 1966 (3) SCR 328 , 336 and 337 (AIR 1866 SC 1307)	None
Probhudas Morarjee Rajkotia v. Union of India, AIR 1966 SC 1044 , 1047.Such an infirmity in pleadings led this Court in State of Madhya Pradesh v. Bhopal Sugar Industries Ltd. (1964) 6	None
SCR 846 (AIR 1964 SC 1179 ) to remand the matter to the High Court in order to enable the petitioner therein to amend its petition.28.	None
Mr. Garg asked for a remand so that the respondents could have an opportunity to plead the necessary facts but we declined to do so as we did not propose to allow the appeal on the narrow ground that the respondents plea of discrimination was inadequate.	None
Nor indeed did the learned Attorney General press for a decision on any such ground.	None
We have heard the learned counsel full on the merits of the matter, especially as the question of onus was not presented before the High Court in the form in which it was presented before us.	None
We will now advert to the merits of the other contentions.29.	None
The Proviso to Rule 10 (IIB) (i) of the 1968 Rules under which Diplomaholders were debarred from crossing the qualification bar placed at Rs 610 need not detain us because the learned Attorney General states that the bar has since been removed with retrospective effect.	None
The 1968 scale of pay will therefore apply equally to the degreeholders and diplomaholders in the Cadre of Assistant Engineers, with effect from the date on which the 1968 Rules came into force.	None
Respondents, accordingly, will be eligible to reach the ceiling of the scale regardless of the fact that they hold a diploma and not a degree in Engineering.30.	None
The main question for decision arises out of the challenge to the Rules of 1970 under which diploma holders in the cadre of Assistant Engineers are not entitled even to be considered for promotion to the next higher cadre of Executive Engineers.	None
Under the Schedule to those Rules, recruitment to the cadre of executive engineers can be made only by promotion from amongst Assistant Engineers.	Facts
To that is added the impugned rider that only those Assistant Engineers will be eligible for promotion who possess a bechelors degree in Engineering or who hold the qualification of A. M. I. E. (Sections A and B) and who have put in at least seven years service.	Facts
Diploma holders in Engineering, like the respondents, are thus rendered ineligible for promotion as Executive Engineers.31.	None
We have observed earlier while dealing with the question of onus that there was no justification for the respondents plea that the record does not disclose the necessity for the impugned rule of 1970.We will draw attention to the relevant material, which is always admissible to show the reasons and the justification for the classification.	None
Such reasons need not appear on the face of the rule or law which effects the classification.	None
Ram Krishna Dalmia v. Justice S. R. Tendolkar 1959 SCR 279 , 3078 (AIR 1958 SC 538 ).32.	None
The Seniority list of Assistant Engineers as of January 1, 1971 discloses a significant phenomenon.	None
The last comprises 78 Assistant Engineers and omitting the very first amongst them who was only a matriculate, the remaining 77 were appointed as Assistant Engineers between October 19, 1960 and December 24, 1970.	None
Prior to August 6, 1962 when the rules of 1962 came into force, only 7 Assistant Engineers held an Engineering Degree as against 13 who held a diploma.	None
The position on February 27, 1968 when the rules of 1968 came into force was that the number of degreeholders had increased to 38 while that of diploma holders went up from 12 to 21 only.	None
On October 12, 1970 when the impugned rule now under consideration came into force, there were 48 degreeholders and 26 diplomaholders in the cadre of Assistant Engineers, excluding the last one at item No. 78 who was promoted after the promulgation of the rules but who is also a degreeholder.	None
We have advisedly taken no note of two instances in one of which the incumbent was not appointed as a regular Assistant Engineer and the other where, though appointed, the person concerned did not join the Department.33.	None
It is transparent from this analysis that till about 1968 there was a dearth of Engineering graduates.	Reasoning
In 1962.	Reasoning
the ratio between graduates and diplomaholders was 12.	Reasoning
In 1968, it became almost 21 and in 1970 the position remained more or less unchanged.	Reasoning
The appellants were entitled to take into account this spurt in the availability of persons with higher educational qualifications for manning next higher post of promotion.	Reasoning
In fact, it may not be overlooked, that even under the recruitment rules of 1949 graduates in Civil Engineering were alone eligible for direct appointment as Assistant Engineers in the Kashmir Engineering Service.	Reasoning
Only departmental promotions could be made from amongst diplomaholders and that too if they had put in 5 years service in the cadre of Supervisors.	Reasoning
There is therefore no substance in the contention that the record sheds no light on why a change was thought necessary in a system that had stood the test of time.	Reasoning
In 1968 itself when there was a proliferation in the ranks of graduates, an attempt was made which was later rectified, to offer a higher incentive to graduates by the placement of a qualification bar.	Reasoning
We are not called upon to adjudge its validity for reasons already mentioned but it is obvious that the impact of the changing pattern had to receive its due recognition.34.	None
But Mr. Setalvad contends that if the nature of duties and responsibilities of the post of Executive Engineer has undergone significant change.	Arguments of Petitioner
there would be no justification for restricting the field of choice to graduates.	Arguments of Petitioner
Talent and efficiency could be found in the ranks of diplomaholders in an equal measure and it is urged that rather than display a mere fancy for graduates and restrict its choice, the State should have in the interest of an efficient service, laid the promotional chances open to both the ranks on the basis of talent, experience and efficiency.	Arguments of Petitioner
This argument, as presented, is attractive but it assumes in the Court a right of scrutiny somewhat wider than is generally recognised.	None
Article 16 of the Constitution which ensures to all citizen equality of opportunity in matters relating to employment is but an instance or incident of the guarantee of equality contained in Article 14.	Reasoning
The concept of equal opportunity undoubtedly permeates the whole spectrum of an individuals employment from appointment through promotion and termination to the payment of gratuity and pension.	Reasoning
But the concept of equality has an inherent limitation arising from the very nature of the constitutional guarantee.	Reasoning
Equality is for equals.	Reasoning
That is to say that those who are similarly circumstanced are entitled to an equal treatment.35.	Reasoning
Since the constitutional code of equality and equal opportunity is a charter for equals equality of opportunity in matters of promotion means an equal promotional opportunity for persons who fall, substantially, within the same class.	Reasoning
A classification of employees can therefore be made for first identifying and then distinguishing members of one class from those of another.	Reasoning
Classification, however, is fraught with the danger that it may produce artificial inequalities and therefore, the right to classify is hedged in with salient restraints or else, the guarantee of equality will be submerged in class legislation masquerading as laws meant to govern well marked classes characterized by different and distinct attainments.	None
Classification, therefore, must be truly founded on substantial differences which distinguish persons grouped together from those left out of the group and such differential attributes must bear a just and rational relation to the object sought to be achieved.36.	None
Judicial scrutiny can therefore extend only to the consideration whether the classification rests on a reasonable basis and whether it bears nexus with the object in view.	None
It cannot extend to embarking upon a nice or mathematical evaluation of the basis of classification for were such an inquiry permissible it would be open to the courts to substitute their own judgment for that of the legislature or the rulemaking authority on the need to classify or the desirability of achieving a particular object.37.	None
Judged from this point of view, it seems to us impossible to accept the respondents submission that the classification of Assistant Engineers into Degreeholders and Diplomaholders rests on any unreal or unreasonable basis.	Reasoning
The classification, according to the appellant, was made with a view to achieving administrative efficiency in the Engineering services.	Reasoning
If this be the object, the classification is clearly correlated to it for higher educational qualifications are at least presumptive evidence of a higher mental equipment.	Reasoning
This is not to suggest that administrative efficiency can be achieved only through the medium of those possessing comparatively higher educational qualifications but that is beside the point.	Reasoning
What is relevant is that the object to be achieved here is not a mere presence for an indiscriminate imposition of inequalities and the classification cannot be characterized as arbitrary or absurd.	Reasoning
That is the farthest that judicial scrutiny can extend.38.	None
On the facts of the case, classification on the basis of educational qualifications made with a view to achieving administrative efficiency cannot be said to rest on any fortuitous circumstances and one has always to bear in mind the facts and circumstances of the case in order to judge the validity of a classification.	None
The provision in the 1939 Rules restricting direct recruitment of Assistant Engineers to Engineering graduates, the dearth of graduates in times past and their copious flow in times present are all matters which can legitimately enter the judgment of the rulemaking authority In the light of these facts, that judgment cannot be assailed as capricious or fanciful.	None
Efficiency which comes in the trial of a higher mental equipment can reasonably be attempted to be achieved by restricting promotional opportunity to those possessing higher educational qualifications and we are concerned with the reasonableness of the classification not with the precise accuracy of the decision to classify nor with the question whether the classification is scientific.	None
Such tests have long since been discarded.	None
In fact American decisions have gone as far as saying that classification would offend against the 14th Amendment of the American Constitution only if it is purely arbitrary, oppressive or capricious Joseph Radice v. People of the State of New York, (1923) 68 Law Ed. 690, 695 American Sugar Ref.	None
Co. v. Louisiana, (1900) 45 Law Ed 102, 103 and the inequality produced in order to encounter the challenge of the Constitution must be actually and palpably unreasonable and arbitrary Arkansas Natural Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission (1923)	None
67 Law Ed. 705, 710.	None
We need not go that far as the differences between the two classesgraduates and diplomaholders  furnish a reasonable basis for separate treatment and bear a just relation to the purpose of the impugned provision.40A. Educational qualifications have been recognized by this Court as a safe criterion for determining the validity of classification.	None
In State of Mysore v. P. Narasingh Rao, (1968) 1	None
SCR 407 (AIR 1968 SC 349 ) where the cadre of Tracers was reorganized into two, one consisting of matriculate Tracers with a higher scale of pay and the other of nonmatriculates in a lower scale, it was held that Articles 14 and 16 do not exclude the laying down of selective tests nor do they preclude the Government from laying down qualifications for the post in question.	None
Therefore, it was open to the Government to give preference to candidates having higher educational qualifications.	None
In Ganga Ram v. Union of India.	None
(1970) 3	None
SCR 481 at p. 488 (AIR 1970 SC 2178 )	None
it was observed thatThe State which encounters diverse problems arising from a variety of circumstances is entitled to lay down conditions of efficiency and other qualifications for securing the best service for being eligible for promotion in its different departments.	None
In the Union of India v. Dr. (Mrs.) S B Kohli.	None
AIR 1973 SC 811 (813) a Central Health Service Rule requiring that a professor in Orthopaedics must have a postgraduate degree in the particular speciality was upheld on the ground that the classification made on the basis of such a requirement was not without reference to the objectives sought to be achieved and there can be no question of discrimination.	None
The argument that a degree qualification was not the only criterion of suitability was answered laconically as strange39.	None
Under the Schedule to the 1970 rules a degree qualification is prescribed as a condition for promotion to the post of an Executive Engineer from the cadre of Assistant Engineers But there is no rule requiring a similar qualification for promotion to the post of Superintending Engineer which is next higher to the post of Executive Engineer or for promotion to the apex post of the Chief Engineer.	None
The schedule provides that recruitment to these two categories of posts shall be made by promotion from amongst persons in cadres next below, who possess experience for a stated number of years.	None
This circumstance is pressed into service by the respondents in support of their plea that the whole basis of classification is unreal and that the true object could not be the attainment of higher administrative efficiency.	None
If it was thought necessary to prescribe a Degree qualification in order to achieve efficiency in the post of Executive Engineers, ex hypothesis it should have been equally imperative, if not more to provide for a similar condition in regard to promotion to higher poststhus runs the argument.40.	None
This argument means that any service reform must embrace every hierarchy or none at all.	None
It is often impossible or at any rate inexpedient to reach and remedy all forms of evil, wherever present.	None
Reform must begin somewhere if it has to begin at all and therefore, the administrator who has nice and complex problems to solve must be allowed the freedom to proceed tentatively, step by step.	None
Justice Holmes gave in a similar context a significant warning that We must remember that the machinery of Government would not work if it were not allowed a little play in its joints.	None
Bain Peanut Co. v. Pinson (1930) 75 Law Ed 482.	None
489.41.	None
The seniority list of January 1, 1971 shows how very unreal the argument is that the qualification rule not having been extended to the higher echelons of service, it can bear no nexus with the attainment of administrative efficiency in a comparatively lower hierarchy of Assistant Engineers.	Reasoning
On Jan 1, 1971 which was soon after the publication of the 1970 rules there were 6 persons in the cadre of Superintending Engineers all of whom except one, are graduates.	Reasoning
The one at the top is an L.E.E. but he entered service in 1939 and must now be quite on the verge of retirement.	Reasoning
There is therefore but slender chance, that a nongraduate could climb into the top position of a Chief Engineer, which post can, under the rules of 1970, be filled only by promotion from amongst Superintending Engineers.	Reasoning
Promotion to the cadre of Superintending Engineers can be made only from amongst Executive Engineers and the Seniority list shows that out of 22 Executive Engineers, 19 are graduates and only 3 are diplomaholders.	Reasoning
Out of the 19, the first 15 according to seniority are all graduates so that the chances of a diplomaholder being promoted as a Superintending Engineer are fairly remote.	Reasoning
With the new rules coming into force, all Executive Engineers will after October 12, 1970, be appointed from amongst graduates in the rank of Assistant Engineers and therefore the cadre of Executive Engineers will soon consist of graduates exclusively.	Reasoning
The Governor was entitled to give weight to these practical considerations and to restrict the operation of the impugned rule to cases where their application was imperative.	Reasoning
Dealing with practical exigencies, a rulemaking authority may be guided by the realities of life, just as the legislature, while making a classification is free to recognize degrees of harm and it may confine its restrictions to those classes of cases where the need is deemed to be the clearest Miller v. Wilson (1915) 59 Law Ed 628 (632).	None
If the law presumably hits the evil where it is most felt, it is not to be overthrown because there are other instances to which it might have been applied (1914) 58 Law ED 1288, 1289.42.	None
Only one point remains to be considered and it requires a close attention as it claims to have the authority of leading decisions rendered by this Court.	None
We have relegated this point to a rear position because it was necessary, for a proper understanding thereof, to clear the ground of various other doubts dealt with above.	None
A neat point can now be framed and discussed.	None
If persons recruited from different sources are integrated into one class, they cannot thereafter be classified so as to permit in favour of some of them a preferential treatment in relation to others.	None
That is the argument before us which, applied to the facts of the case, means in plain terms this Direct recruits and promotees having been appointed as Assistant Engineers on equal terms, they constitute an integrated class and for purposes of promotion they cannot be classified on the basis of educational qualifications.43.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have drawn attention to three decisions of this court (Narsing Raos case, Ganga Rams case and Dr. Mrs. Kohlis case) in which classification on the basis of educational qualifications was upheld.	None
In Narsing Raos case, (1968) 1	None
SCR 407 (AIR 1968 SC 349 ).	None
Tracers doing equal work were classified into two grades having unequal pay, the basis of the classification being higher educational qualifications.	None
In Dr. (Mrs.) Kohlis case, AIR 1973 SC 811 , as refined a classification as between an F.R.C.S. in general surgery and an F.R.C.S. in Orthopaedics was upheld in relation to appointment to the post of a Professor of Orthopaedics.	None
But these cases are sought to be distinguished on the authority of the decision of this Court in Roshan Lal v. Union of India, (1968) 1	None
SCR 185 (AIR 1967 SC 1889 ).	None
That case is crowded with facts and requires a careful consideration for its proper understanding.44.	None
Vacancies in Grade D of Train examiners were filled in Roshan Lals case by (a) direct recruits i.e. apprentice train examiners and (b) promotees from the class of skilled artisans, in the ratio of 5050.	None
Promotion from Grade D to Grade C was to be made on the basis of senioritycumsuitability.	None
In October, 1965 the Railway Board issued a notification providing that 80 of the vacancies in Grade C would be filled up from the class of apprentice train examiners recruited on and after April 1, 1966 and the remaining 20 from amongst the train examiners in Grade D.	None
The notification further provided that apprentice train examiners who were absorbed in Grade D before April 1966 would be accommodated en bloc in Grade C in the 80 of the vacancies.	None
without undergoing any selection.	None
With regard to 20 of the remaining vacancies it was provided that the promotion would be on the basis of selection and not on the basis of senioritycumsuitability.	None
The petitioner, Roshan Lal Tandon, who had entered Railway Service in 1954 as a skilled artisan and was later selected and confirmed in Grade D as a Train examiner, filed a writ petition in this Court challenging under Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution, that part of the notification which gave favourable treatment to apprentice train examiners who had already been absorbed in Grade D. His case was that, he, along with direct recruits, formed one class in Grade D and according to the conditions of service applicable to them, seniority was to be reckoned from the date of appointment as Train Examiners in Grade D and promotion to Grade C was to be on the basis of senioritycumsuitability, irrespective of the source of recruitment.	None
His contention was that since he was appointed to Grade D after undergoing the necessary selection and training and since he was integrated with the others who were appointed to Grade D by direct recruitment, no differentiation could be made as between him and the direct recruits in the matter of promotion to Grade C.45.	None
The constitutional objection taken by Roshan Lal was upheld by this Court with these observationsAt the time when the petitioner and the direct recruits were appointed to Grade D, there was one Class in Grade D formed of direct recruits and the promotees from the grade of artisans.	None
The recruits from both the sources to Grade D were integrated into one class and no discrimination could thereafter be made in favour of recruits from one source as against the recruits from the other source in the matter of promotion to Grade C. To put it differently, once the direct recruits and promotees are absorbed in one cadre, they form one class and they cannot be discriminated for the purpose of further promotion to the higher Grade C. In the present case, it is not disputed on behalf of the first respondent that before the impugned notification was issued there was only one rule of promotion for both the departmental promotees and the direct recruits and that rule was senioritycumsuitability, and there was no rule of promotion separately made for application to the direct recruits.	None
As a consequence of the impugned notification a discriminatory treatment is made in favour of the existing Apprentice Train Examiners who have already been absorbed in Grade D by March 31, 1966, because the notification provides that this group of Apprentice Train Examiners should first be accommodated en bloc in Grade C upto 80 per cent of vacancies reserved for them without undergoing any selection.	None
As regards the 20 per cent of the vacancies made available for the category of Train Examiners to which the petitioner belongs the basis of recruitment was selection on merit and the previous test of senioritycumsuitability was abandoned.	None
In our opinion, the present case falls within the principle of the recent decision of this Court in Mervyn v. Collector of Customs, Bombay.	None
1966 (3) SCR 600 (AIR 1967 SC 52 ).The key words of the judgment are The recruits from both the sources to Grade D were integrated into one class and no discrimination could thereafter be made in favour of recruits from onesourceas against the recruits from the other source in the matter of promotion to Grade C. (emphasis supplied).	None
By this was meant that in the matter of promotional opportunities to Grade C, no discrimination could be made between promotees and direct recruits by reference to the source from which they were drawn.	None
That is to say, if apprentice Train Examiners who were recruited directly to Grade D as Train Examiners formed one common class with skilled artisans who were promoted to Grade D as Train Examiners, no favoured treatment could be given to the former merely because they were directly recruited as Train Examiners and no discrimination could be made as against the latter merely because they were promotees.	None
This is the true meaning of the observation extracted above and no more than this can be read into the sentence next following To put it differently, once the direct recruits and promotees are absorbed into one cadre, they form one class and they cannot be discriminated for the purpose of further promotion to the higher Grade C.	None
In terms, this was just a different way of putting what had preceded.46.	None
Thus, all that Roshan Lals case, (1968) 1 SCR 185 (AIR 1967 SC 1889 ) lays down is that direct recruits and promotees lose their birthmarks on fusion into a common stream of service and they cannot thereafter be treated differently by reference to the consideration that they were recruited from different sources.	Reasoning
Their genetic blemishes disappear once they are integrated into a common class and cannot be revived so as to make equals unequals once again.47.	None
Roshan Lals case (1968) 1	None
SCR 185 (AIR 1967 SC 1889 ) is thus no authority for the proposition that if direct recruits and promotees are integrated into one class, they cannot be classified for purposes of promotion on a basis other than the one that they were drawn from different sources.	None
In the instant case, classification rests fairly and squarely on the consideration of educational qualifications Graduates alone shall go into the higher post, no matter whether they were appointed as Assistant Engineers directly or by promotion.	None
The discrimination therefore is not in relation to the source of recruitment as in Roshan Lals case.48.	None
It is relevant, though inconclusive, that the very Bench which decided Roshan Lals case, (1968) 1	None
SCR 185 (AIR 1967 SC 1889 ) held about a fortnight later in Narsing Raos case, (1968) 1	None
SCR 407 (AIR 1968 SC 349 ) that higher educational qualifications are a relevant consideration for fixing a higher pay scale and therefore Matriculate Tracers could be given a higher scale than nonmatriculate Tracers though their duties were identical.	None
Logically, if persons recruited to a common cadre can be classified for purposes of pay on the basis of their educational qualifications, there could be no impediment in classifying them on the same basis for purposes of promotion.	None
The ratio of Roshan Lals case can at best be an impediment in favouring persons drawn from one source as against those drawn from another for the reason merely that they are drawn from different sources.49.	None
There is an aspect of Roshan Lals case, (1968) 1	None
SCR 185 (AIR 1967 SC 1889 ) which may not be ignored.	None
The Union of India had contended by its counteraffidavit therein that the reorganization of the service was made with a view to obtaining a better and more technically trained class of Train Examiners which had become necessary on account of the acquisition of modern types of Rolling Stock, complicated designs of carriages and wagons and greater speed of trains under the dieselisation and electrification programmes.	None
This contention, though mentioned in the affidavit, was not placed before the Court as is transparent from the judgment.	None
What its impact would have been on the ultimate conclusion need not be speculated, for it is enough for understanding the true ratio of the judgment to say that the case was decided on the sole basis that persons recruited from different sources were classified according as whether they were appointed directly or by promotion.	None
That is why the key passage cited by us from the judgment winds up by saying that the case falls within the principle ofthe decisionin Mervyn v. Collector50.	None
In (1966) 3	None
SCR 600 (AIR 1967 SC 52 ).	None
no question arose in regard to the validity of a classification.	None
The question there was whether a rotational system for fixing seniority was discriminatory if the recruitment was partly by promotion and partly directly.	None
It was held that there is no inherent vice in such a system if the service is composed in fixed proposition of direct recruits and promotees.	None
The rotational system could therefore be adopted in fixing seniority in the cadre of Appraisers to which recruitment was in actual practice made directly and by promotion in the ratio of 5050.	None
But different considerations were held to arise when the same system was applied for fixing seniority in the cadre of Principal Appraisers because there was only one source from which the Principal Appraisers were drawn, namely Appraisers.	None
The ratio of the judgment is The rotational system cannot apply when there is only one source of recruitment.	None
This is the principle within which Roshan Lals case was expressed to fall.	None
Neither the one nor the other of the two cases was concerned with the question which arises for consideration before us.	None
The classification of which we have to determine the validity is not made in relation to the source of recruitment, Therefore cases like Roshan Lals case, (1968) 1	None
SCR 185 (AIR 1967 SC 1889 ), Mervyn Continhos (1966) 3	None
SCR 600 (AIR 1967 SC 52 ) and Pandits (AIR 1972 SC 252 ) fall in a class apart.	None
The case last mentioned is a typical instance of that class, where directly appointed Mamlatdars were accorded a favoured treatment qua the promotee Mamlatdars in the matter of promotion to the post of Deputy Collector.	None
Mamlatdars, whether appointed directly or by promotion, constituted one class and therefore it was held that no reservation could be made in favour of the directly appointed Mamlatdars for promotion to the cadre of Deputy Collectors.51.We are therefore of the opinion that though persons appointed directly and by promotion were integrated into a common class of Assistant Engineers, they could, for purposes of promotion to the cadre of Executive Engineers, be classified on the basis of educational qualifications.	None
The rule providing that graduates shall be eligible for such promotion to the exclusion of diplomaholders does not violate Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution and must be upheld.	Reasoning
But we hope that this judgment will not be construed as a charter for making minute and microcosmic classifications.	None
Excellence is, or ought to be, the goal of all good government and excellence and equality are not friendly bedfollows.	Reasoning
A pragmatic approach has therefore to be adopted in order to harmonize the requirements of public services with the aspirations of public servants.	Reasoning
But let us not evolve, through imperceptible extensions, a theory of classification which may subvert, perhaps submerge, the precious guarantee of equality.	Reasoning
The eminent spirit of an ideal society is equality and so we must not be left to ask in wonderment what after all is the operational residue of equality and equal opportunity?52.	Reasoning
For reasons indicated, we allow the appeal but there will be no order as to costs.53.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
