 Bachawat, J. for self and Sarkar, J.1.	None
This appeal by special leave is from an order of the Punjab High Court rejecting an application by the Commissioner of Incometax, Punjab, under S. 66(2) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922.	None
On April 21, 1953, 14 partners of the firm of Messrs. Chander Bhan Harbhajan Lal of Rupar (hereinafter referred to as the assessee firm) constituted under the instrument of partnership, dated December 5, 1952, applied to the Incometax Officer, Project Circle, Ambala, for registration of the firm under S. 26A of the Indian Incometax Act.	Facts
It may be mentioned at this stage that there was another firm of the name of Chander Bhan and Co., of Ferozepore (hereinafter referred to as the Ferozepore firm), consisting of 8 partners and constituted under a deed, dated June 14, 1952 which provided inter alia	Facts
If any one of the executants enters into business individually or along with another person, all the partners of the firm shall be entitled to the profit and liable for the loss, accruing from that business according to the shares hereinbefore mentioned.2.	None
One Gosain Chander Bhan was a partner of both the assessee firm and the Ferozepore firm.	Facts
In course of proceedings arising out of the application for registration of the asseessee firm under S. 26A, Harbhajan Lal, one of its partners, stated on January 30, 1954I Harbhajan Lal son of Shri Ram Chand of Rupar solemnly declare that firm M s. Chander Bhan Harbhajan Lal consisted of 14 partners as mentioned in the return and deed of partnership.	Facts
Gosain Chander Bhan was partner not in his individual capacity but on behalf of the firm M s. Gosain Chander Bhan and Company Ferozepur having about six partners.	Facts
Other partners are partners in their individual capacity.	None
It seems that other partners of the assessee firm made similar statements on February 27, 19543.	Facts
The capital of the assessee firm was supplied by Gosain Chander Bhan.	Facts
It appears that Gosain Chander Bhan had taken the capital from the Ferozepore firm, and the amount was shown as an item in his accounts with the Fezorepore firm.4.	Facts
By his order, dated February 27, 1954, the Incometax Officer rejected the application under S. 26A.	Facts
He held that (I) the deed, dated December 5, 1952 did not specify the date of the constitution of the assessee firm (2) some of the parties to the deed having no experience in the business of the firm were not really partners therein, and the number of partners in the firm had been artificially increased with a view to reduce the taxable liability (3) the firm was not genuine, as it had no banking account, did not possess the incometax clearence certificate, did not notify its constitution to the P. W. D. and payments were received from the P. W. D. and payments were received from the P. W. D. in the name of Harbhajan Lal.	Facts
On appeal, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, Ambala Branch, set aside all these findings of the Incometax Officer.	Facts
The correctness of the decision of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner on these points is no longer challenged.5.	Facts
The Incometax Officer also held that though the deed, dated December 5, 1952, stated that Gosain Chander Bhan was the partner having 6/16th share, in reality the Ferozepore firm was the partner of the assessee firm having 6/16th share therein and consequently, the assessee firm was illegally constituted, because (1) the Ferozepore firm could not legally be a partner in the assessee firm (2) the total number of partners of the assessee firm was 21, and (3) moreover, the individual shares of the eight partners of the Ferozepore firm were not specified in the deed, dated December 5, 1952.	Facts
On these findings, the Incometax Officer rejected the application under S. 26A. On appeal, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner set aside these findings, and held that Goasin Chander Bhan was the partner of the assessee firm in his individual capacity and not as representative of and on behalf of all the partners of the Ferozepore firm.	Facts
He held that Gosain Chander Bhan had merely agreed to share his profits and losses in the assessee firm with his other partners of the Ferozepore firm, that such an agreement did not make the other partners of the firm, partners in the assessee firm, and the effect of the agreement was to constitute a subpartnership only.	Facts
On further appeal, the Incometax Appellate Tribunal, Delhi, Branch, upheld these findings of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and held that those findings were supported by the decisions in Commissioner of Incometax B. and O. v. M s. Agardih Colliery, AIR 1955 Pat 225 and Commissioner of Incometax, Punjab v. Laxmi Trading Co., 195324 ITR 173 (Punj).	Facts
The Commissioner of Incometax, Punjab then applied to the Appellate Tribunal under S. 66 (1) of the Indian Incometax Act requiring the Tribunal to refer the following questions to the Punjab High Court.1.	Facts
Whether the Incometax Appellate Tribunal was right in applying the decision of the Patna High Court in the case of a AIR 1955 Pat 225 and of the Punjab High Court in the case of 195324 ITR 173 (Punj) to the facts of this case.2.	Facts
If the answer to question No. 1 is in affirmative whether the rulings noted above lay down a correct law.3.	Facts
Whether there is any material to show that there was a subpartnership formed by Gosain Chander Bhan with other persons at Ferozepur.4.	Facts
Whether in the circumstances of the case, the correct status of the assessee was firm or association of persons and whether registration under S. 26A of the Indian Incometax Act could be allowed in this case.	None
By its order dated September 5, 1955, the Tribunal rejected the application, and held that the questions were concluded by judicial decisions and no useful purpose will be served by referring them again to the High Court.	None
On September 18, 1956, the Commissioner of Incometax applied to the Punjab High Court under S. 66 (2) of the Indian Incometax Act for an order directing the Tribunal to refer the aforesaid questions to the High Court.	Facts
At the hearing of the application before the High Court, Counsel for the Commissioner of Incometax gave up questions Nos. 2 and 4, and submitted that the following two questions of law arose for decision(a) is there any material on the record to support the finding that Gosain Chander Bhan was the real partner of the assessee firm and is not a partner in a representative capacity representing all the partners of Gosain Chander Bhan and Company of Ferozepore, and(b) whether the present is a case of subpartnership to which the two cases referred to in the order by the Tribunal apply?By its order, dated January 24, 1961, the High Court dismissed the application, and held that the questions of law were wellsettled.	Facts
The Commissioner of Incometax now appeals to this Court special leave.6.	None
Counsel for the appellant contended that all the partners of the Ferozepore firm were the partners in the assessee firm, having regard to (1) the fact that the capital of the assessee firm was secured by Gosain Chander bhan from the Ferozepore firm, (2) the clause in the deed of partnership, dated June 14, 1952, under which all the partners of the Ferozepore firm were entitled to the profit and liable for the loss in respect of the share of Gosain Chander Bhan in the assessee firm, and (3) the statement of Harbhajan Lal and other partners of the assessee firm that Gosain Chander Bhan was a partner in the assessee firm not in his individual capacity but on behalf of the Ferozepore firm.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to accept this contention.	Decision
The real question before us is whether any substantial question of law arises out of the order of the Tribunal.	None
We think that no such question arises.	None
The deed, dated December5, 1952 clearly stated that Gosain Chander Bhan and 18 other parties to the deed were the partners of the assessee firm.	Reasoning
On the face of the deed, it does not appear that Gosain Chander Bhan was a partner in a representative capacity on behalf of the Ferozepore firm, or that the Ferozepore firm was the partner in the assessee firm.	Reasoning
On the material on the record, the Appellate Tribunal was entitled to come to the conclusion that Gosain Chander Bhan and not the Ferozepore firm was the partner in the assessee firm.7.	Reasoning
The capital of the assessee firm was supplied by Gosain Chander Bhan.	Facts
Gosain Chander Bhan in his turn had taken the amount of the capital from the Ferozepore firm, but there is no evidence to show that he took the money otherwise than in his individual capacity.	Facts
The clause in the partnership deed constituting the Ferozepore firm to the effect that all the partners of the Ferozepore firm are entitled to the profits and liable for the losses accrued in the share of Gosain Chander Bhan in the assessee firm may show that there is a partnership between Gosain Chander Bhan and other partners of the Ferozepore firm in respect of the share of Gosain Chander Bhan in the profits and losses of the assessee firm.	Reasoning
This partnership, if any, between the members of the Ferozepore firm does not make the Ferozepore firm a partner in the assessee firm.	None
The Ferozepore firm is not a party to the agreement of partnership constituting the assessee firm.	None
Gosain Chander Bhan in his individual capacity could legally be a partner in the assessee firm, and the fact that he secured the capital from the Ferozepore firm, or that he entered into a partnership with the other members of the Ferozepore firm in respect of his share in the assessee firm does not show that the Ferozepore firm is a partner of the assessee firm, or that the assessee firm is not validly constituted.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Commissioner of Incometax, Madras v. Sivakasi MatchExporting Co., AIR 1964 SC 1813 at p. 1817, Subba Rao, J. observedA partner of a firm can certainly secure his capital from any source or surrender his profits to his subpartner or any other person.	None
Those facts cannot conceivably convert a valid partnership into a bogus one.8.	None
The statements of Harbhajan Lal and other partners of the assessee firm do not carry the matter any further.	Reasoning
In the statement dated January 30, 1954, Harbhajan Lal clearly stated that the assessee firm consisted of 14 partners as mentioned in the deed of partnership, dated December 5, 1952.	Reasoning
It is true that he stated also that Gosain Chander Bhan was a partner not in his individual capacity but on behalf of the Ferozepore firm, but this statement must be read in the background of the clause in the partnership deed constituting the Ferozepore firm, under which the partners of the Ferozepore firm were entitled to the profits and liable for the losses in the share of Gosain Chander Bhan in the assessee firm.	Reasoning
The statement fairly read shows that only the 14 persons mentioned in the deed, dated December 5, 1952, were the partners in the assessee firm.	Reasoning
If the 8 partners of the Ferozepore firm were partners in the assessee firm, Harbhajan Lal could not have stated that the number of the partners of the assessee firm was 14 only.9.	None
Counsel for the appellant pointed out that the High Court erroneously assumed that the partnership deed constituting the Ferozepore firm was, dated June 14, 1954, whereas, in fact, this partnership was, dated June 14, 1952.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel for the appellant rightly pointed out that on the erroneous assumption that the partnership deed constituting the Ferozepore firm was executed after December 5, 1952, when the assessee firm was constituted, the High Court held that there was a subpartnership between Goasin Chander Bhan and the other partners in the Ferozepore firm in respect of the share of Gosain Chander bhan in the assessee firm.	Reasoning
Counsel then contended that, in law a subpartnership can be entered only after the partnership is constituted, and, therefore, there, was no subpartnership between the members of the Ferozepore firm in respect of the share of Gosain Chander Bhan in the assessee firm.	Reasoning
In support of this contention, counsel relied on the following passage in Lindley on Partnership, 12th Edn., pp.	None
99100A subpartnership is, as it were, a partnership within a partnership it presupposes the existence of a partnership to which it is itself subordinate.	None
We need not enquire into the correctness of counsels assumption that this passage is an authority for the proposition that there cannot be an agreement of subpartnership in anticipation of the head partnership coming into existence.	None
But the question whether the relevant clause in the deed, dated June 14, 1952, created a subpartnership in respect of the share of Chander Bhan in the assessee firm having regard to the fact that this deed was executed before the assessee firm came to be constituted is not material for the purpose of the case, and need not be decided.	None
The clause regulated the relationship of the partners of the Ferozepore firm inter se, and created a partnership between them in respect of the share of Gosain Chander Bhan in the assessee firm.	None
Assuming, without deciding, that this partnership was not, strictly speaking, a subpartnership, it does not follow that the partners of the Ferozepre firm became partners in the assessee firm.	Reasoning
By reason of this clause visavis the partners of the Ferozepore firm, Gosain Chander Bhan could be regarded as their representative in the assessee firm nevertheless, they were strangers to the contract of partnership constituting the assessee firm, and did not become partners therein.	Reasoning
In Commissioner of Incometax v. Bagyalakshmi and Co., 196555 ITR 660 at p. 664 (AIR 1965 SC 1708 at p. 1710), Subha Rao J. observedA contract of partnership has no concern with the obligation of the partners to others in respect of their shares of profit in the partnership.	None
It only regulates the rights and liabilities of the partners.	None
A partner may be the karta of a joint Hindu family he may be a trustee he may enter into a subpartnership with others he may, under an agreement, express or implied, be the representative of a group of persons, he may be a benamidar for another.	None
In all such cases he occupies a dual position.	Arguments of Respondent
Qua	None
the partnership, he functions in his personal capacity, qua the third parties, in his representative capacity.	Arguments of Respondent
The third parties, whom one of the partners represents, cannot enforce their rights against the other partners nor the other partners can do so against the said third parties.	Arguments of Respondent
Their right is only to a share in the profits of their partnerrepresentative in accordance with the terms of the agreement, as the case may be.10.	Arguments of Respondent
Quite plainly, the relevant clause in the deed, dated June 14, 1952 was not part of the agreement of partnership, dated December 5, 1952, constituting the assessee firm, and did not affect the right of the partners of the assessee firm, to claim registration of the assessee firm under S. 26A. It is not possible to say that there are no materials on the record to support the finding that Gosain Chander Bhan was a partner of the assessee firm in his individual capacity and not as representing the Ferozepore firm.	Reasoning
The question whether there was a subpartnership between the members of the Ferozepore firm in respect of the share of Gosain Chander Bhan is not material because assuming that there was no subpartnership, the members of the Ferozepore firm did not become partners in the assessee firm by virtue of the relevant clause in the deed, dated June 14, 1952 or otherwise.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, satisfied that no substantial question of law arises out of the order of the Appellate Tribunal.11.	Reasoning
Counsel for the appellant submitted that as a question of law arose out of the order of the Tribunal, the High court was bound to call for a statement of case.	None
We are not inclined to accept this contention.	Decision
Where, as in this case, the question of law is not substantial and the answer to the question is selfevident, the High Court is not bound to require the Tribunal to refer the question.	Decision
In our opinion, the High Court in the exercise of its discretion under Section 66 (2) rightly rejected the appellants application.12.	Decision
In the result, the appeal is dismissed with costs.	None
Mudholkar, J.13.	None
This is an appeal from a judgment of the High Court of Punjab rejecting a petition made by the Commissioner of Incometax, Punjab, under S. 66 (2) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, for calling upon the Incometax Appellate Tribunal to refer certain questions of law to the High Court.14.	None
The relevant facts are theseOn December 29, 1948, Gosain Chander Bhan and four others entered into a partnership for carrying on the business of contractors in the name of Gosain Chander Bhan and Co .	Facts
The partnership was entered into at Ferozepore and GosainChander Bhan was a major shareholder in the firm.	Facts
By a deed of partnership, dated June 14, 1952, the firm was reconstituted and three other persons were admitted as partners therein.	Facts
The old name, however was continued.	Facts
One of the terms of the partnership was that if any work was carried on by any one of the partners individually or in partnership with with others the profits and losses arising out of that work would be divided amongst all the partners in proportion of their shares in the firm.	Facts
On December 5, 1952, a partnership firm bearing the name of Messrs. Chander Bhan Harbhajan Lal was formed at Rupar.	Facts
The deed of partnership sets out the names of 14 persons including Gosain Chander Bhan as partners and the object of the firm was to carry on business similar to that carried on by Gosain Chander Bhan and Co.	Facts
It may be mentioned that in this firm also Gosain Chander Bhan was the major shareholder.	Facts
For convenience we would call the firm constituted on June 14, 1952, as the Ferozepore firm and the one constituted on December 5, 1952, as the Rupar firm.15.	Facts
On April 21, 1953 an application was presented by the partners of the Rupar firm, accompained by the deed of partnership, dated December 5, 1952 before the Incometax Officer, Ambala for registration of the firm under S. 26A of the Act for the assessment year 195354.	Facts
The Incometax Officer examined the partners constituting the firm and recorded their statements in order to ascertain the true position with regard to the constitution of the firm.	Facts
Harbhajan Lal in his statement, dated January 30, 1954 and the other partners in their statements, dated February 27, 1954 admitted that Gosain Chander Bhan had entered into the partnership not in his individual capacity but on behalf of the Ferozepore firm.	Facts
The Incometax Officer also found that the funds invested in the Rupar firm in the name of Gosain Chander Bhan were also provided by the Ferozepore firm.	Facts
Upon these and some other facts he came to the conclusion that the deed of partnership, dated December 5, 1952 did not specify the real partners of the firm and, therefore, the firm cannot be registered.	Facts
He further came to the conclusion that as in reality all the partners of the Ferozepore firm and not Gosain Chander Bhan alone, were also partners along with 16 other persons in the Rupar firm, the total number of partners exceeded 20.	Facts
Such a partnership being invalid in law the firm could not be registered under S. 26A of the Act.	Facts
He, therefore, dismissed the application by his order dated February 27, 1954.	Facts
In appeal his order was, however, reversed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner by his order dated August 12, 1954.	Facts
The appeal preferred therefrom by the Incometax Officer before the Incometax Appellate Tribunal (Delhi Branch) was dismissed by it by its order, dated September 5, 1955.	Facts
In doing so the Tribunal based itself on the decision in AIR 1955 Pat 225 and 195324 ITR 173 (Punj).	Facts
The Commissioner of Incometax then applied to the Tribunal under S. 66 (1) to refer to the High Court four questions of law.	Facts
The Tribunal, however, rejected the application on March 5, 1956.	Facts
The Commissioner thereupon preferred a petition before the High Court under S. 66 (2) for directing the Tribunal to refer four questions of law to it.	Facts
At the hearing, however, only the following two questions were pressed on his behalf(1)	None
Whether there is any material on the record to support the finding that Gosain Chander Bhan was the real partner of the assessee firm and was not a partner in the representative capacity representing all the partners of Gosain Chnader Bhan and Company of Ferozepur?(2) Whether the present is a case of subpartnership to which two cases, AIR 1955 Pat 225 and (1953) 24 ITR 173 (Punj) referred to in the order of the Tribunal apply?The High Court, as already stated, dismissed the application and now the matter is before us by special leave.16.	Facts
Before us the learned Additional SolicitorGeneral, appearing for the department, has raised the following two points(1) that there was a question of law which it was incumbent on the Tribunal to refer to the High Court(2) that both the Tribunal and the High Court proceeded to decide the question of law on erroneous premises.	None
The question of law, according to learned Additional SolicitorGeneral, iswhether on the facts and circumstances of the case the firm Chander Bhan Harbhajan Lal was registered under S. 26A.It must be borne in mind that the question is not whether there was material on record on the basis of which the Tribunal could come to the conclusion that the firm was registrable but whether, upon the facts found it was registrable.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, the question is as to what is the cumulative effect of all the facts and not what is the effect of only some of the facts found.	Arguments of Petitioner
The contention of learned Additional SolicitorGeneral is that when a question of law is said to arise the High Court is bound to call for a reference and it is immaterial that the question is settled already.17.	Arguments of Petitioner
If in the facts and circumstances of the case a question of law arises, there is little doubt that under S. 66 (1) the Tribunal is bound to draw up a statement of the case and refer the question to the High Court.	None
The Tribunal has no discretion in the matter.	None
Where however, the Tribunal refuses to do so and the High Court is moved under S. 66 (2) of the Act, the position becomes different.	None
Section 66 (2) confers a discretion on the High Court and if the High Court is of the opinion that though a question of law arises it is not substantial or that it is wellsettled it can reject the petition.	None
What we have, therefore, to ascertain is whether a question of law at all arises in this case and if so whether it is a substantial question of law.	None
In order to ascertain whether a question of law arises it is necessary to ascertain the facts which have been found established by the Incometax authorities.	None
I will recapitulate the facts found by the Incometax Officer.(1)	None
The original firm Gosain Chander Bhan and Co., was formed at Ferozepore on December 29, 1948.(2)	None
Gosain Chander Bhan had a major share therein.(3)	None
This firm was dissolved and reconstituted on June 14, 1952(4)	None
In the original firm there were only 5 partners including Gosain Chander Bhan while in the reconstituted firm there were 8 partners including Gosain Chander Bhan.(5)	None
The large share in the reconstituted partnership was that of Gosain Chander Bhan.(6)	None
The partnership deed of December 5, 1952 specified the names of 14 persons including Gosain Chander Bhan as partners but did not specify the names of all the partners of Gosain Chander Bhan and Co., of Ferozepore.(7)	Facts
The funds invested by Gosain Chander Bhan in the Rupar firm came out of the funds belonging to the Ferozepore firm.(8)	None
Harbhajan Lal and other partners of Rupar firm admitted that Gosain Chander Bhan was not a partner in the Rupar Firm in his individual capacity but had joined it on behalf of the Ferozepore firm.(9)	None
The business carried on by the Rupar firm is similar to that carried on by the Ferozepore firm.	None
None of these findings on questions of fact has been negatived or upset by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner or by the Tribunal.	None
These findings must, therefore, be taken as the basis for ascertaining whether a question of law arises, and if it does, they have to be borne in mind for deciding the question.	None
At this stage I would like to mention that the High Court committed an obvious error in stating in its judgment that the reconstituted Ferozepore partnership was formed on June 14, 1954, that is, after the Rupar partnership was formed.	None
This error has obviously led it into a further error, that is, of coming to the conclusion that the Ferozepore partnership was a subpartnership in relation to the Rupar partnership.	None
Now, ordinarily there can be a subpartnership, only when there is already in existence another partnership.	None
Since in point of fact the Rupar partnership came into existence after the formation of the Ferozepore partnership the latter cannot stand in relation to the former as a subpartnership.	None
The law as stated in Lindley on Partnership at p. 99 isA subpartnership is, as it were, a partnership within a partnership it presupposes the existence of a partnership to which it is itself subordinate.	None
The correctness of this statement of law is not assailed before us by either side.18.	None
It is no doubt settled law that where an application for registration of a firm complies with the requirements of S. 26A and of the rules and it is found that the partnership is not genuine the Incometax Officer is not bound to admit the firm to registration.	None
But it does not follow from this that for ascertaining whether the requirements of law have been satisfied and for ascertaining whether a firm is genuine or is bogus or that it has no legal existence the Incometax Officer must confine himself to the deed of partnership.	None
He has power to examine the partners and to require them to adduce evidence for satisfying himself about the genuiness or otherwise of the firm and also for satisfying himself about compliance with the requirements of law.	None
Paragraphs 2 and 3 of the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, however, show that he has treated the recitals in the partnership deed of December 5, 1952 as conclusive of the question as to who were the real partners in the Rupar firm.	None
I can find no discussion or ever reference to the findings of the Incometax Officer which I have earlier summarised.	None
No doubt in Para 4 he has referred to some of the facts found by the Incometax Officer and the inference drawn by him and rejected them.	None
Leaving these facts out of account there are other facts which are relevant for consideration but they appear to have been ignored by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	None
Ascertainment of the legal effect of those facts would, in my judgment, be a question of law.	None
It is not disputed before us that the application for registration should set out the names of all the persons who are real partners of the firm and, therefore it is incumbent on the Incometax Authorities to ascertain whether any of the partners had joined the partnership in his individual capacity or as representing a group of persons.	None
If, to the knowledge of the other partners he represents a group of persons, be they members of another partnership or a joint Hindu family, it would be a question for decision as to whether all those persons have thereby become partners and that would be a question of law.	None
In paragraph 6 of his order the Appellate Commissioner seems to have had this in mind and it will be useful to quote the relevant portion of the paragraphThere are two essential conditions before it can be stated that contractual relationship has been brought about between the partners which is the relationship of a partnership and the two conditions are that the partners must agree to share the profits of the business and the business must be carried on by all or any of them for all of them.	None
There can in law be a partnership between the partner in a Head Firm and another individual in respect of the partners share in the Head Firm so as to entitle the partners in the subfirm to apply for registration thereof under S. 26A of the Indian Incometax Act.	None
If several persons are partners and one of them agrees to share the profits derived by him with a stranger, this agreement does not make the stranger a partner in the original firm.	None
The result of such an agreement is to constitute a subpartnership.	None
It makes the parties to it partners inter se, it does not affect the other members of the principal firm.19.	None
The sole ground given by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner for holding that Gosain Chander Bhan was a partner in the Rupar firm in his individual capacity is that the preamble to the partnership deed clearly sets out that the contracting parties were 14 and that Gosain Chander Bhan was a partner in his individual capacity.	None
It is true that he has repelled some of the grounds given by the Incometax Officer in support of his conclusion but, as already stated, he has entirely omitted to consider other facts found by the Incometax Officer which bear directly on the point.	None
It may be that the finding cannot be said to be based on no evidence but even so, as it has been arrived at by ignoring relevant facts, it is vitiated by an error of law.20.	None
The first sentence of Para 6 of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner quoted above paraphrases the provisions of S. 4 of the Partnership Act and is unexceptionable.	None
The rest of the quotation appears to have been lifted from the headnote of the decision in 195324 ITR 173 (Punj).	None
The question which fell for decision in that case wasWhether there could in law be a partnership between a partner in a headfirm and another individual in respect of the partners share in the head firm so as to entitle the partners in the subfirm to apply for registration thereof under S. 26A, Incometax Act.	None
1922?and it was answered in the affirmative.21.	None
A subpartnership can also, as stated by the learned Appellate Assistant Commissioner, apply for registration under S. 26A.	None
But where does it all lead to?	None
Here the question which arises is whether the head firm as such has entered into partnership with another or whether only one of the partners of the head firm has entered into partnership with another.	None
For, that is what the question really is.	None
According to the appellant, the Ferozepore firm as a firm has become partner in the Rupar firm and not merely Gosain Chander Bhan.	None
The learned Appellate Assistant Commissioner has not addressed himself to this aspect of the case.	None
At the end of the paragraph the learned Appellate Commissioner has observed There is no data on the record to substantiate the finding of the Incometax Officer that the firm was not genuine in view of the local enquiries by him.	None
That, however, is not the whole question.	None
The whole question which arises in this case is whether in the facts and circumstances of this case the firm Chander Bhan Harbhajan Lal was registrable under S. 26A, the circumstances being that a partner of another and preexisting firm became a partner in Chander Bhan Harbhajan Lal on behalf of the partners of that other firm, that he had brought in funds belonging to that firm and that the new firm was to carry on business of the same kind as the old firm was carrying on.	Issue
Further, the reasoning of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner would be pertinent only to a case of subpartnership.	None
To put it somewhat differently, the question is whether the application for registration reflects the true position as regards the real partners in the Rupar Firm.	None
This has not been considered either by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner or by the Tribunal.22.	None
The Tribunal merely referred to the decisions in Laxmi Trading	None
Cos case, 195824 ITR 173 (Punj) and in Agardih Colliery Co.s case, AIR 1955 Pat 225 and dismissed the departments appeal.	None
The latter is also a case of subpartnership and does not assist us in deciding the matter arising here.23.	None
It is contended on behalf of the respondents that the question arising here has already been settled by three decisions of this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The first of these is AIR 1964 SC 1818.	Arguments of Respondent
In that case this Court held that the more fact that one of the partners of the firm seeking registration brought his capital from another firm of which he was one of the partners and the further circumstance that he shared the profits received by him from the former firm with his partners in the latter firm did not make the former partnership bogus.	Arguments of Respondent
In the first place the circumstance that upon a certain set of facts this Court arrived at a particular decision would not necessarily make that a binding precedent even though the inference drawn by the Court upon which its judgment rests is one of law.	None
In the second place we have here the fact that one of the partners of the firm seeking registration was a partner in his representative capacity and not merely a partner in his individual capacity.	Arguments of Respondent
The next case relied on is Commissioner of Incometax, Gujarat v. Abdul Rahim and Co., 196555 ITR 651 (AIR 1965 SC 1703 ).	Arguments of Respondent
In that case this Court held that the circumstances that one of the partners was a benamidar for another does not justify a refusal to register the firm under S. 26A and reiterated the essential conditions which must be satisfied by the firm seeking registration which have been stated in Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay v. Dwarkadas Khetan and Co., 19612 SCR 821 (AIR 1961 SC 680 ).	Arguments of Respondent
It does not advance the respondents case any further.	Arguments of Respondent
The third decision is that in 196555 ITR 660 (AIR 1965 SC 1798 ).	Arguments of Respondent
There Subha Rao, J., speaking for the Court has observedA partnership may be the karta of a joint Hindu family he may be a trustee he may enter into a subpartnership which others he may, under an agreement, express or implied, be the representative of a group of persons he may be a benamidar for another.	Arguments of Respondent
In all such cases he occupies a dual position.	Arguments of Respondent
Qua the partnership he functions in his personal capacity qua the third parties, in his representative capacity.	Arguments of Respondent
The third parties, whom one of the partners represents, cannot enforce their rights against the other partners nor the other partners can do so against the said third parties.	Arguments of Respondent
Their right is only to a share in the profits of their partnerrepresentative in accordance with law or in accordance with the terms of the agreement, as the case may be.	Arguments of Respondent
It is upon these observations that learned counsel for the respondents has placed strong reliance.	None
These observations are based on the fact that the person admitted as a partner in the firm seeking registration was so admitted as an individual.	Arguments of Respondent
They cannot apply and were apparently not intended to apply to a kind of case as the one we have here, that is, where the partner to the knowledge of other partners was joining on behalf of and representing several persons.	Arguments of Respondent
What has to be determined is the cumulative effect of this circumstances established in the case.	Arguments of Respondent
That is a question of law and I am clear that that question is far from being settled and also that it is a substantial question of law.24.	None
A further question which arises on the particular facts of this case is whether the Rupar firm can be aid to have legal existence because its real partners are not merely 14 persons but there are 7 persons in addition to that number.	Issue
Under the provisions of S. 11 of the Companies Act., 1956 (S.4of the 1913 Act) where the number of partners exceeds 20 the firm has to be incorporated and that is admittedly not what has been done here.	None
If, therefore, the number is in excess of 20 the firm being unincorporated it cannot be said to have a legal existence.	None
Unfortunately the Incometax Appellate Tribunal has not discussed the facts and circumstances of this case but dismissed the second appeal preferred by the appellant on the short ground that there was no merit in it in view of the decisions cited by it.	None
It was necessary for the Tribunal to ascertain whether on the facts of this case those decisions concluded the matter.	None
The questions which arise are in my opinion, substantial between the parties and are not settled.	None
For these reasons I allow the appeal, set aside the judgment of the High Court and direct the Tribunal to refer the question earlier set out to the High Court.	None
Costs so far incurred will abide the result.25.	None
OrderIn accordance with the opinion of the majority, Civil Appeal No. 605 of 1963 is dismissed with costs.	Decision
Civil Appeals Nos. 810 and 811 are dismissed, but there will be no order as to costs.26.	Decision
Appeals dismissed.	None
