 Hidayatullah, C.J. 1.	None
The appellant (Rev. Father Monteiro) is a resident of Goa.	Facts
After the annexation of Goa by India, he had the choice of becoming an Indian national or retaining Portuguese nationality.	Facts
He chose the latter and was registered as a foreigner.	Facts
He also obtained a temporary residential permit which allowed him to stay on in India till November 13, 1964.	Facts
The period of stay expired and he did not ask for its extension or renewal.	Facts
He was ordered to leave India by the Lt. Governor of Goa.	Facts
The Lt. Governor is empowered by a notification of the President of India issued under Art.	Facts
239 of the Constitution to discharge the functions of the Central Government and his order has the same force and validity as if made by the Central Government.	Facts
Rev. Father Monterio disobeyed the order, and in consequence was prosecuted under S. 14 read with S. 3(2) (c) of the Foreigners Act.	Facts
He was convicted and sentenced to 30 days simple imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 50 (or 5 days further simple imprisonment).	Facts
He appealed unsuccessfully to the Court of Session and his revision application to the Court of the Judicial Commissioner.	Facts
Goa also failed.	Facts
He now appeals by special leave of this Court against the order of the Judicial Commissioner, Goa dated August 7, 1967.	Facts
2.	None
The defence of Rev. Father Monterio was that he was protected by the Geneva Conventions Act, 1960, that the order of the Lt. Governor for his deportation was ultra vires the Act and that he had committed no offence.	Facts
The Judicial Commissioner and the two courts below have held, for different reasons, that the Geneva Conventions ceased to apply after Goa became a part of India and that the Municipal Courts in India can give him no redress against an Act of State.	Facts
In the appeal before us Mr. Edward Gardner Q. C. appeared for Rev. Father Monterio with the leave of this Court.	Facts
3. To understand the case, a brief history of the annexation of Goa and what happened thereafter is necessary.	None
Goa was a Portuguese colony for about 450 years, having been seized by force of arms.	None
On December 19, 1961 Goa was occupied by the Indian Armed Forces following a short military action.	None
It then came under Indian Administration from December 20, 1961 and was governed under the Goa, Daman and Diu (Administration) Ordinance 1962 promulgated by the President of India.	None
Under the Ordinance all authorities were to continue performing their functions and all laws (with such adaptations as were necessary) were to continue in force and power was conferred on the Central Government to extend to Goa other laws in force in India.	None
The Ordinance was later replaced by an Act of Parliament bearing the same title and numbered as Act 1 of 1962.	None
It was enacted on March 27, 1962 and came into force from March 5, 1962.	None
It reenacted the provisions of the Ordinance and in addition gave representation to Goa in Parliament amending for the purpose the Representation of the People Act.	None
The same day (March 27, 1962), the Constitution (Twelfth Amendment) Act, 1962 was enacted and was deemed to have come into force on December 20, 1961.	None
By this amendment Goa was included in Union Territories and a reference to Goa was interested in Article 240 of the Constitution.	None
Many Acts in force in India were then extended to Goa and many Regulations and Orders were promulgated.	None
Amongst the Acts so extended were the Citizenship Act of 1955, the Foreigners Act 1946 and the Registration of Foreigners Act, 1939.	None
The Central Government also promulgated under S. 7 of the Citizenship Act, 1955, the Goa, Daman and Diu (Citizenship) Order 1962 and as it directly concerns the present matter we may reproduce the second paragraph of the Order (in so far as it is material to our purpose) here2.	None
Every person who or either of whose presents or any of whose grandparents was born before twentieth day of December, 1961, in the territories now comprised in the Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu shall be deemed to have become a citizen of India on that day Provided that any such person shall not be deemed to have become a citizen of India as aforesaid if within one month from the date of publication of this Order in the Official Gazette that person makes a declaration in writing to the Administrator of Goa, Daman and Diu or any other authority specified by him in this behalf that he chooses to retain the citizenship or nationality which he had immediately before the twentieth day of December 1961.	None
Provided further 4.	None
Pursuant to this Order , on April 27, 1962 Rev. Father Monterio made his declaration of Portuguese nationality and on August 14, 1964 applied for a residential permit.	None
On his failure to apply for a renewal of the permit the order of the Lt. Governor was passed on June 19, 1965.	None
Prosecution followed the disobedience of the order.	None
5.	None
At the outset it may be stated that Mr. Gardner concedes that he does not question the legality of the military action or the annexation.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact, he is quite clear that we may consider the annexation to be legal.	Arguments of Petitioner
His contention in brief, is that the order of the Lt. Governor is tantamount to deportation of Rev. Father Monterio and the Geneva Conventions Act gives protection against such deportation during occupation which has not validly come to an end, and, therefor, no offence was committed by him.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
The argument overlooks one cardinal principle of International Law and it is this.	Reasoning
Rev. Father Monterio by his declaration retained his Portuguese nationality.	Reasoning
His sojourn in India was subject to such laws as existed in India in general and in Goa in particular.	Reasoning
It cannot be doubted that the reception and residence of an alien is a matter of discretion and every State has, by reason of its own territorial supremacy, not only the legal right	Reasoning
but also the competence to exclude aliens from the whole or any part of its territory.	Reasoning
This proposition is so wellgrounded in International Law that every country has adopted the passport system, which document certifies nationality and entry into any State is only possible with the concurrence of that State.	Reasoning
Again a State exercises territory supremacy over persons in its territory, whether its own subjects or aliens and can make laws for regulating the entry, residence and eviction of aliens.	Reasoning
Therefore, the application of the Foreigners Act, the Registration of Foreigners Act and the Orders passed under them, to Rev. Father Monterio was legally competent.	Reasoning
A considerable body of writers on International Law support the proposition and it is sufficient to refer only to Oppenheim (Vol. I) pp.	Reasoning
675/676 and Brierly Law of Nations p. 217.If authority were needed the proposition would be found supported in the decision of the Privy Council in Musgrove v. Chun Teeong Toy 1891 AC 272.	Reasoning
The Lord Chancellor in that case denied that an alien excluded from British Territory could maintain an action in a British Court to enforce such a right.	Reasoning
7.	None
This proposition being settled, Mr. Gardner sought support for his plea from the provisions of the Geneva Conventions Act of 1960.	Arguments of Petitioner
That Act was passed to enable effect to be given to the International Convention done at Geneva in 1949.	Arguments of Petitioner
Both India and Portugal have signed and ratified the Conventions.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Gardner relies on the provisions of the Fourth Schedule relative to the protection of certain persons in time of war.	Arguments of Petitioner
He refers in particular to Articles 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 47 and 49.	Arguments of Petitioner
By Articles 1 and 2 there is an undertaking to respect and ensure respect for the Conventions in all circumstances of declared war or of any other armed conflict even if the state of war is not recognized by one of the parties and to all cases of partial or total occupation of the territory of a High Contracting Party even if the occupation meets with no armed resistance.	None
Article 4 defines a protected person and the expression includes those who at a given moment and in any manner whatsoever, find themselves, in case of conflict or occupation, in the hands of a Party to the conflict or Occupying Power of which they are not nationals.	Reasoning
Article 6 then lays down the beginning and end of application of the Convention.	Reasoning
The Convention applies from the outset of any conflict or occupation.	Reasoning
In the territory of Parties to the conflict, the application of the Convection cases on the general close of Military operation.	Reasoning
In the occupied territory it ceases one year after the general close of military operation but the occupying Power is bound for the duration of occupation, to the extent that such Power exercises the functions of Government in such territory, by Articles 112, 27, 2934, 47, 49, 51, 52, 53, 59, 6173 and 143.	None
8.	None
We next come to Articles 47 and 49 which are the crux of the matter and are relied upon for the protection.	None
Mr. Gardner points out that under Article 48 even protected persons may in no circumstance renounce in part or in entirety the rights secured to them by the Conventions.	Arguments of Petitioner
The case, therefore, depends on whether Articles 47 and 49 apply here.	None
We may now read Article 47 and 4947.	None
Protected persons who are in occupied territory shall not be deprived, in any case or in any manner whatsoever, of the benefits of the present Convention by any change introduced, as the result of the occupation of a territory, into the institutions or Government of the said territory, nor by any agreement concluded between the authorities of the occupied territories and the Occupying Power, nor by any annexation by the latter of the whole or part of the occupied territory.	None
49.	None
Individual or mass forcible transfers, as well as deportation of protected persons from occupied territory to the territory of the Occupying Power or to that of any other country, occupied or not are prohibited, regardless of their motive.	None
Nevertheless, the Occupying Power may undertake total or partial evacuation of a given area if the security of the population or imperative military reasons so demand.	None
Such evacuation may not involve the displacement of protected persons outside the bounds of the occupied territory except when for material reasons it is impossible to avoid such displacement.	None
Persons thus evacuated shall be transferred back to their homes as soon as hostilities in the area in question have ceased.	None
The Occupying Powers undertaking such transfers evacuations shall ensure, to the greatest practicable extent, that proper accommodation is provided to receive the protected persons, that the removals are effected in satisfactory condition, and hygiene, health, safety and nutrition, and that members of the same family are not separated.	None
The Protecting Power shall be informed of any transfers and evacuation as soon as they have taken place.	None
The Occupying Power shall not detain protected persons in an area particularly exposed to the dangers of war unless the security of the population or imperative security of the population or imperative military reasons so demand.	None
The Occupying Power shall not deport or transfer parts of its own civilian population into the territory it occupies.	None
9.	None
The point of difference between the parties before us in relation to Article 47 is whether the occupation continues, the annexation of the territory notwithstanding, and in relation to Art.	None
49 whether the order of the Lt. Governor amounts to deportation of a protected person.	Issue
10.	None
Mr. Gardners submissions are the order that has been made is a deportation order and it is therefore ultra vires the Geneva Conventions.	Arguments of Petitioner
These Conventions create individual rights which cannot even be waived.	Arguments of Petitioner
So long as occupation continues these rights are available and the Geneva Conventions must not be looked at in isolation but read in conjunction with International Law as part of a positive law.	Arguments of Petitioner
They should not be abandoned lightly.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, conquest was a method of acquiring territory in the past but after the Convenant of the League of Nations, the Charter of the United Nations and the general Treaty for the Renunciation of War, the acquisition of territory in International Law by the use of force does not confer any title.	Arguments of Petitioner
Occupation therefore, can only be of terra nullius, not now possible.	Arguments of Petitioner
He invokes the rule in Heydons case, 15843 Co. Rep. 7a case and says that the history of the making of the Geneva Conventions shows that this was precisely the mischief sought to be met and the Conventions now become a part of the laws of India through Parliamentary Legislation.	Arguments of Petitioner
He concedes that the war of liberation of Goa and the annexation were lawful but he contends that annexation does not deprive protected persons of the protection.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, once there is military action and occupation, occupation cannot cease by a unilateral act of annexation by incorporating the territories of Goa with India.	Arguments of Petitioner
If India did not care to be bound by the Conventions, there was a method of denunciation in Article 158 but since the Convention is registered under Article, 159 even denunciation at a late stage was not possible.	Arguments of Petitioner
He relies upon Article 77 and says that Liberated means when the occupation comes to an end.	Arguments of Petitioner
The amendment of the Constitution only legalises annexation so far as India is concerned but in International Law the territory remains occupied.	Arguments of Petitioner
The words of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
47 themselves are clear enough to establish this.	Arguments of Petitioner
In short, the contention is that occupation does not come to end by annexation and, therefore, the protection continues till there is either cession of territory or withdrawal of the Occupying Power from the territory, both of which events have not taken place.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his propositions he relies upon Dholakia (International Law)Pp. 180, 181, 293 Oppenheim International Law(Vol.	Arguments of Petitioner
1) 7th Edn.	Arguments of Petitioner
Pp. 574 et seq R. Y. Jennings	Arguments of Petitioner
The Acquisition of Territories in International Law Pp. 5356, 67. 11.	Arguments of Petitioner
The contention on behalf of the State is that by occupation is meant occupation by armed forces or belligerent occupation and occupation comes to an end by conquest followed by subjugation.	Arguments of Respondent
Reference is made to many works on International Law, We have to decide between these two submissions.	Arguments of Respondent
12.	None
This is the first case of this kind and we took time to consider our decision.	None
We are of opinion that the pleas of Mr. Gardner that the Geneva Conventions Act makes dispunishable the conduct of Rev. Father Moterio, must fail.	None
13.	None
To begin with, the Geneva Conventions Act gives no specific right to any one approach the Court.	None
The Act was passed under Article 253 of the Indian Constitution read with entries 13 and 14 of the Union List in the Seventh Schedule to implement the agreement signed and merely provides for certain matters based on Geneva Conventions.	None
What method an aggrieved party must adopt to move the Municipal Court is not very clear but we need not consider the point because of our conclusions on the other parts of the case.	None
We shall consider the Conventions themselves.	None
Before we consider the Geneva Conventions, which form Schedules to the Act, it is necessary to look at the Act itself to see what rights it confers in relation to the Conventions, and whether it gives a right to Rev. Father Monterio in the present circumstances to invite the Courts opinion.	None
Being a court of law, this Court must be satisfied about its own jurisdiction, the foundation for which must be in some enforceable law.	None
14.	None
Prior to the Geneva Conventions Act of 1960 there were the Geneva Conventions Act of 1911 and the Geneva Conventions Implementing Act of 1936.	None
We need not consider them because by the twentieth section of the present Act, the former ceases to have effect as part of the law of Indian and the latter is repealed.	None
The Act is divided into five Chapters, Chapter I deals with the title and extent and commencement of the Act and gives certain definitions.	None
Of these, the important definition is that of protected internee as a person protected by the fourth Convention and interned in India.	None
Chapter II then deals with punishment of offenders against the Conventions and the jurisdiction on courts to deal with breaches by punishing them.	None
Chapter III lays down the procedure for the trial of protected persons, for offence enabling a sentence of death or imprisonment for a term of two years or more to be imposed and for appeals etc.	None
Chapter IV prohibits the use of Red Cross and other emblems without the approval of Central Government and provides for a penalty.	None
Chapter V gives power to the Central Government to make rules.	None
The Act then sets out the Conventions in its schedules and the Conventions which are four in number are set out in as many Schedule to the Act.	None
15.	None
It will thus be seen that the Act by itself does not give any special remedy.	None
It does give indirect protection by providing for breaches of Convention.	None
The Conventions are not made enforceable by Government against itself nor does the Act give a cause of action to any party for the enforcement of Conventions.	None
Thus there is only an obligation undertaken by the Government of India to respect the Conventions regarding the treatment of civilian population but there is no right created in favour of protected persons which the Court has been asked to enforce.	None
If there is no provision of law which the courts can enforce the court may be powerless and the court may have to leave the matter to what Westlake aptly described as indignation of mankind.	None
16.	None
The appellant has, however, sought the aid of the Geneva Conventions to establish that he could not be compelled to leave Goa and thus committed no offence.	None
We may, therefore, say a few words about the Geneva Conventions, particularly Schedule IV, which deals with the protection of civilian persons in time of war.	None
In the past protection of civilian population was inadequately provided in Conventions and treaties.	Reasoning
The four conventions came at different times, the oldest in 1864 and the last in 1949.	Reasoning
The Fourth Hague Convention of 1907 contained Articles 4256, but this protection was restricted to occupation by an enemy army.	Reasoning
The Regulations merely stated the principles and enjoined maintenance of law and order and regard for family rights, lives of persons and private property, and prohibited collective punishments.	Reasoning
In effect, these were confined to the forward areas of war and did not apply when total war took place and the civilian population was as much exposed to the dangers of war as the military.	Reasoning
The example of the First World War showed that civilian population was exposed to exactions.	Reasoning
At the time when the Hague regulations were done, it was though that such matters as noninternment of the nationals of the adversary would be observed.	Reasoning
But the First World War proved to the contrary.	Reasoning
It was in 1921 that the International Committee of the Red Cross produced a draft Convention which among other things enjoined that the inhabitants of the occupied territory should not be deported and civilians in enemy territory must be allowed to return to their homes unless there were reasons of State security and the internees must receive the same treatment as prisoners of war.	Reasoning
The Diplomatic Conference of 1929 and the Red Cross Conference of 1934 made useful studies but action scheduled to take place in 1940 could not be implemented as the Second World War broke out.	Reasoning
Although the belligerent countries had accepted that the 1929 Convention regarding prisoners of war was applicable to civilians, the lessons of the Second World War were different.	Reasoning
We know the treatment of civilians by Germany and the horrid deaths and privations inflicted on them.	Reasoning
War, though outlawed, continues still and as President Max Huber said War, as it becomes more and more total, annuls the differences which formerly existed between armies and civilian populations in regard to exposure to injury and danger.	Reasoning
17.	None
At the termination of the last war the International Red Cross Conference at Stockholm prepared a draft in 1948, which became the basis of the deliberations of the Diplomatic Conference which met at Geneva from April 21 to August 12, 1949 and the present Convention was framed.	Reasoning
The Regulations were not revised or incorporated.	Reasoning
The 1949 Conventions are additional to the Regulations and it is expressly so laid down in Article 154 of the Geneva Conventions.	Reasoning
18.	None
The Hague Regulations, Arts.	Reasoning
42  56, contained some limited and general rule for the protection of inhabitants of occupied territory.	Reasoning
The Regulations are supplementary.	Reasoning
Regulations 43 and 55 which have no counterpart in the Geneva Conventions must be read.	Reasoning
They are not relevant here.	Reasoning
Similarly, as there is no definition of occupation in the Geneva Conventions, Article 42 of the Regulation must be read as it contains a definition42.	Reasoning
A territory is considered as occupied when it finds itself in fact placed under the authority of hostile army.	Reasoning
19.	None
The Regulations further charge the authority having power over the territory to take all measures to establish and assure law and order.	Reasoning
The Regulations generally charged the occupying power to respect the persons and property of the inhabitants of the occupied territory.	Reasoning
There was no provision showing when occupation commenced and when it came to an end.	Reasoning
It is because of this omission that it is claimed in this case that occupation continues so long as there is no cession of the territory by the conquered or withdrawal by the conqueror and that till then the protection of the Geneva Conventions obtains.	Reasoning
However, Article 6 which provides about the beginning and end of the application of the Conventions throws some light on this matter.	Reasoning
20.	None
The question thus remains what is meant by occupation ?	None
This is, of course, not occupation of terra nulius but something else.	None
Since there is no definition of occupation in the Geneva Conventions, we have to turn to the definition in the Hague Regulations.	None
Article 154 of the 4th Schedule reads154 Relation with the Hague Conventions.  	None
In the relations between the Powers who are bound by the Hague Conventions respecting the Laws and Customs of War on Land , whether that of 29th July, 1899, or that of 18th October, 1907, and who are parties to the present Convention, this last Convention shall be supplementary to Sections II and III of the Regulations annexed to the abovementioned Conventions of the Hague.	None
21.	None
The definitions of occupation in the Regulations must be read since the regulations are the original rules and the Conventions only supplement the Regulations.	Reasoning
We have already quoted the definition and it shows that a territory is considered as occupied when it finds itself in fact placed under the authority of a hostile army.	Reasoning
This means that occupation is by military authorities.	Reasoning
In the Justice case (United States v. Attstoctcer, et al. (1947) U. S. Military Tribunal, Nuremberg L. R. 3 T. N. C. vi. 34) it was stated that the laws of belligerent occupation apply only to an occupation during the course of actual warfare and that once the enemy has been totally defeated those laws do not apply to the ensuing occupation.	Reasoning
22.	None
The question thus resolves itself into this Is occupation in Article 47 belligerent occupation or occupation which continues after the total defeat of the enemy ?	Reasoning
In this connection courts must take the Facts of State from the declaration of State authorities.	Reasoning
Military occupation is temporary de facto situation which does not deprive the Occupied Power of its sovereignty nor does it take away its Statehood.	Reasoning
All that happens is that pro tempore the Occupied Power cannot exercise its rights.	Reasoning
In other words belligerent occupation means that the Government cannot function and authority is exercised by the occupying force.	Reasoning
23.	None
Annexation, on the other hand, occurs when the Occupying Power acquires and makes the occupied territory as its own.	Reasoning
Annexation gives a de jure right to administer the territory.	Reasoning
Annexation means that there is not only possession but uncontested sovereignty over the territory.	Reasoning
As Greenspan  The Modern Law of Land Warfare put it (p. 215) military occupation must be distinguished from subjugation , where a territory is not only conquered, but annexed by the conqueror.	Reasoning
24.	None
There is, however, a difference between true annexation on the one hand and premature annexation, or as it is sometimes called anticipated annexation, on the other.	Reasoning
Jurists regard annexation as premature so long as hostilities are continuing and there is an opposing army in the field even if the Occupied Power is wholly excluded from the territory.	Reasoning
Anticipated annexation by unilateral action is not true annexation.	Reasoning
True annexation is only so when the territory is conquered and subjugated.(See Oppenheim International Law (7th End.).	Reasoning
pp. 846847	Reasoning
(Vol. I) 566 (Vol. I), pp.	Reasoning
448/52	Reasoning
(Vol. II), 430439 (Vol. II) and 599 et.	Reasoning
Seq.	Reasoning
(Vol II), Greenspan (ibid)	Reasoning
pp.	Reasoning
215 et.	Reasoning
Seq. 600603 Could Introduction to International Law pp.	Reasoning
652656, 662663 Briefly Law of Nations p. 155.	Reasoning
25.	None
The Conventions rightly lay down that annexation has no effect on the protection.	Reasoning
But they speak of premature or anticipated annexation.	Reasoning
Premature or anticipated annexation has no effect.	Reasoning
Such a plea was negatived for the same reason by the Nuremberg Tribunal.	Reasoning
In fact, when the Convention itself was being drafted the experts were halfinclined to add the word alleged before annexation in Article 47 to distinguish between annexation following conquest and subjugation and annexation made while hostilities are going on.	Reasoning
Subjugation puts an end to the State of war and destroys the source of authority of the existing Government .	Reasoning
In subjugation , which is recognized as one of the modes of acquiring title, not the de facto but also the de jure title passes to the conqueror.	Reasoning
After subjugation the inhabitants must obey the laws such as are made and not resist them.	Reasoning
26.	None
Thus the principle which is accepted is that the Occupying Power must apply the Convention even when it claims during conflict to have annexed the occupied territory.	None
However, then the conflict is over and there is no hostile army in the field, annexation has the effect of creating a title to the territory.	Reasoning
It may be asked why does Article 6 then mention a period of one year ?	Reasoning
The reason given is that if the Occupied Power turns victorious the land would be freed in one year and if the Occupying Power remains victorious, as hostilities cease, strong measures against the civilian population are no longer necessary.	Reasoning
In this, as in other laws, a line is drawn arbitrarily and it is at the end of one year.	Reasoning
Otherwise also, occupation which means belligerent occupation, comes to an end when hostilities cease and	Reasoning
the territory becomes a part of the Occupying Power.	Reasoning
Annexation may sometimes be peaceful, as for example, Texas and Hawaiian Island were peacefully annexed by the United States or after war, as the annexation of South Africa and Orange Free State by Britain.	Reasoning
27.	None
The question, when does title to the new territory begin, is not easy to answer.	Reasoning
Some would make title depend upon recognition.	Reasoning
Mr. Stimsons doctrine of nonrecognition in cases where a State of things has been brought about contrary to the Pact of Paris was intended to deny root of title conquest but when Italy conquered Abyssinia, the conquest was recognized because it was thought that the state of affairs had come to stay .	Reasoning
Thus, although the United Nations Charter includes the obligation that force would not be used against the territorial integrity of other States (Art. 2 Para 4), events after the Second World War have shown that transfer of title to territory by conquest is still recognized.	Reasoning
Prof. R. Y. Jennings poses the question What is the legal position where a conqueror having no title by conquest is nevertheless in full possession of the territorial power, and not apparently to be ousted ?	Reasoning
He recommends the recognition of this fact between the two States.	Reasoning
If cession after defeat can create title, occupation combined with absence of opposition must lead to the same kind of title.	Reasoning
28.	None
In the present case the facts are that the military engagement was only a few hours duration and then there was no resistance at all.	Reasoning
It is hardly necessary to try to establish title by history traced to the early days as was done in the Minquiers and Encrenos case, 1953 SCJ 47.	Reasoning
Nor is there any room for the thesis of Dr. Schwarzenberger (A Manual of International Law, 5th Edn.	Reasoning
P. 12) that title is relative and grows with recognition.	Reasoning
True annexation followed here so close upon military occupation as to leave no real hiatus.	Reasoning
We can only take the critical date of true and final annexation as December 20, 1961 when the entire government and administration were taken over and there was no army in occupation and no army in opposition.	Reasoning
The occupation on December 20, 1961 was neither belligerent occupation nor anticipated occupation, but true annexation by conquest and subjugation.	Reasoning
It must be remembered that Mr. Gardiner concedes that the annexation was lawful.	Reasoning
Therefore since occupation in the sense used in Article 47 had ceased, the protection must cease also.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, of opinion that in the present case there was no breach of the Geneva Conventions.	Reasoning
29.	None
We were invited to look at the matter from another point of view, namely, even if the protection against deportation envisaged by Arts.	Reasoning
47 and 49 were taken to be continued, what is the remedy which the Municipal Courts can give?	Reasoning
It was said, the act was an act of State.	Reasoning
In view of what we have already held it is not necessary to pronounce our opinion on this argument.	Reasoning
30.	None
The national status of subjects of the subjugated State is a matter for the State, and courts of law can have no say in the matter.	Reasoning
As Oppenheim (Vol. 1 p. 573) puts itThe subjugating State can, if it likes, allow them to emigrate, and to renounce their newly acquired citizenship, and its Municipal law can put them in any position it likes, and can in particular grant or refuse them the same rights as those which its citizens by birth enjoy.	Reasoning
31.	None
The Geneva Convention ceased to apply after December 20, 1961.	Reasoning
The Indian Government offered Rev. Father Monteiro Indian nationality and citizenship which he refused and retained his Portuguese nationality.	Reasoning
As a Portuguese national he could only stay in India on taking out a permit.	Reasoning
He was, therefore, rightly prosecuted under the law applicable to him.	Reasoning
Since no complaint is made about the trial as such, the appeal must fail.	Decision
It will be dismissed.	Decision
32.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
