RAMASWAMY, K. KIRPAL B.N. (J)	None
The appellant set up an industry at Unnao in Uttar Pradesh.	Facts
He put up an application to the District Industry Centre, Unnao on 1361986 for the supply of about 300 M. T. of G. P. Steel Sheets.	Facts
The Government of India had constituted the respondent as statutory authority to canalise the procurement of the canalised items for imports and for onward delivery to the consumer industries.	Facts
The General Manager of the District Industry Centre recommended to the respondent of the appellants requirement of 300 M. T. In furtherance thereof, on 248 1987, the respondent had written a letter to the appellants that they could arrange supply of 50 M. T. and directed the appellants to open letters of credit with them and to comply with the requirements mentioned in the letter referred to therein.	Facts
Relevant terms are as under Please note that margin insurance is to be arranged by us.	Facts
For this purpose suppliers will send a cable advice to us immediately after the shipment.	Facts
Suitable provision in this regard has been made in our purchase order4.	Facts
On receipt of documents from the suppliers, our port offices will get in touch with your banker.	Facts
Please note that the consignment(s) is are to be cleared by you through customs on receipt of documents from our port office your bankers to whom documents will be presented against Letter of Credit opened on us.	Facts
In respect of LC established by you against our authority directly in favour of foreign supplier, you are advised to contact our Regional Office immediately upon receipt of documents by your banket for arranging payment of our service charges and insurance etc. and also for getting the documents endorsed in your favour5.	Facts
Please note that in the event of any complaint in regard to shortage, damage and quality, you should report the matter to us immediately with all supporting documents to enable us to take up the matter with the foreign suppliers.	Facts
Your claim will be settled on us by foreign suppliers and to the extent settlements are received by us.	Facts
In case of complaints or short receipts and damage, necessary claim should be lodged by you with the insurance company steamer company while taking delivery of goods at the port.	Facts
Any visual defect noticed on materials other than damage in handling should be reported immediately upon receipt.	Facts
All other complaints should be reported within 30 days from the date of receipt of goodsIn the meanwhile, we request you to kindly go through the purchase order and confirm per return that the same is in order.	Facts
After pooling the requirements of various industries, the respondent had placed a consolidated indent with a foreign seller for the supply of the total required quantity of the canalised items, in this case G. P. Sheets.	Facts
The foreign seller appears to have expressed difficulty in supplying the entire quantity due to exigencies mentioned in their reply.	Facts
In the meanwhile, the appellants admittedly had opened letters of credit with the respondent for 50 M. T. of G. P. Sheets.	Facts
The respondent in turn had opened letters of credit with the foreign suppliers for bulk supply and the foreign suppliers were unable to supply required quantity.	Facts
Consequently, the respondent had written a letter to the appellants to receive 208 of the indented requirement but the appellants seem to have not complied with it.	Facts
The respondent in the counteraffidavit filed in the Tribunal stated thus The supplier i. e. M s VOEST ALPINE were not in a position to organise shipment against the subsequent LOI as there was delay in setting up of the galvanising line.	Facts
Due to these circumstances, the supplier wanted to invoke the force majeure clause on the plea that conditions prevailing at their end warranted invocation of force majeure and hence inability to fulfil contractual obligations qua the respondentThe respondent keeping in mind the interest of complainant and other end users in the country persisted in their efforts to secure shipment and after great efforts succeeded in obtaining supply from M s MONIYIN METALS on behalf of M s VOEST ALPINE.	Facts
M s Monton Metals agreed to ship 20 of the quantity at the same price the complainants and other end users in the country were informed by the respondent that in view of theforce majeure conditions operating in the producing countries the respondent at best could have recovered 216 guarantee money from the supplier towards nonperformance of contractual obligations by the supplier.	Facts
It was in these circumstances that the respondent advised all end users to make necessary financial arrangements and take delivery of 20 of the order placed on their respective behalfs.	Facts
They were further advised to confirm their acceptance(s)The complainants did not reply to the correspondences of the respondent.	Facts
The goods earmarked for them were allowed to be unloaded at the port as the respondents Bombay Office advised that their UC was operative.	Facts
However, the document pertaining to their consignment were returned by the banker who stated that the L C in respect of the complainants was not validThe complainant vide their telegram dated 5121988 agreed to accept the goods in question without prejudice to their right to seek legal remedy by going to Court.	Facts
The respondent informed them to take delivery of the goods in question by 26121988.	Facts
The complainants failed to respond and did not take delivery.	Facts
The goods in question became liable for demurrage charges, it was in these circumstances an alternative buyer was asked to take delivery of the goods in question after paying demurrage and other charges.	Facts
It was only in these circumstances that the goods in question were delivered to another end user.	Facts
Annexed herewith and marked as Annexure is copy of the Telegram dated 5121988.	None
Since the respondent had not supplied the required quantity demanded by the appellants, the appellants laid the complaints before the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (for short the Commission) under Section 21 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, (for short the Act).	Facts
The Commission in the impugned order dated 12 111992 dismissed the complaint in the following words we are clearly of the opinion that the transaction involved in this case is only one of sale of goods for commercial purpose and not an agreement for rendering any service for consideration.	Facts
In these circumstances, the controversy raised in this case cannot be regarded as a consumer dispute which can appropriately be brought before this Forum.	Facts
The original petition is dismissed on this limited ground.	Facts
No costs.	Facts
Calling it in question this appeal under Section 23 of the Act has been filed Shri G. L. Sanghi, learned Senior Counsel for the appellants, has contended that the respondent had undertaken to render service to the appellants for procuring the required quantity of the G. P. Sheets.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants had paid what was demanded from them and had also complied with all the conditions mentioned in the letter.	Arguments of Petitioner
Having had the goods supplied by the foreign sellers, instead of delivering the goods to the appellants diverted them for extraneous consideration to others.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereby, the appellants had suffered damages quantified to the tune of Rs 17, 71, 038 and sought recovery thereof from the respondent for its failure to render services undertaken under the contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
Various letters exchanged between the appellants and the respondent would clearly show that the transaction is one of service contract to be rendered by the respondent to the appellants and due to deficiency in the service, the appellants suffered the above damages.	Arguments of Petitioner
Consequentially, the appellants as consumer under Section a(l) (d) (ii) of the Act are entitled to redressal from the Commission.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Commission was not right in rejecting the claim of the appellants on the ground that it is a commercial transaction.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri M. L. Verma, learned Senior Counsel for the respondent, on the other hand, contended that there is no direct relationship of buyer and seller between the appellants and the foreign suppliers.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellants had opened letters of credit with the respondent and had agreed to take delivery of the goods to be supplied by the respondent after getting them from the foreign suppliers, subject to the terms and conditions mentioned therein.	Arguments of Respondent
In furtherance thereof, the respondent had opened letters of credit directly with the foreign suppliers within the exclusionary clause of Section 2(1) (d) (i) of the Act which defines consumer.	Arguments of Respondent
Thereby, the definition excludes such transaction from the purview of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel for the appellants elaborated the contention that the word commercial used in the definition requires broader construction in a normal trading sense since it being in the nature of the exception.	None
When it is used in the context of resale, the words transaction of commercial nature must be construed to mean direct sale between the buyer and the seller as consumer goods but not when the goods are intended to be consumed for manufacturing purpose to produce a distinctly identifiable different commercial commodity.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, (sic the exclusionary clause of) Section 2(1) (d) (i) is not attracted to the facts in this case Having given our anxious and very careful consideration to the respective contentions, the question emerges whether the appellant firm is a consumer.	Reasoning
The word consumer has been defined under Section 2(1) (d) (i) and (ii) thus (d) consumer means any person who, (i) buys any goods for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any user of such goods other than the person who buys such goods for consideration paid or promised or partly paid or partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment when such use is made with the approval of such person, but does not include a person who obtains such goods for resale or for any commercial purpose or(ii) hires or avails of any services for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any beneficiary of such services other than the person who hires or avails of the services for consideration paid or promised, or partly paid or partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment, when such services are availed of with the approval of the first mentioned person.	None
Clause (i) provides that one who buys any goods for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any user of such goods other than the person who buys such goods for consideration paid or promised or partly paid or partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment when such use is made with the approval of such person, but does not include a person who obtains such goods for resale or for any commercial purpose, is a consumer.	Reasoning
The admitted case is that this does not apply.	None
The question, therefore, is whether the service of the respondent availed of by the appellants is covered under Section 2(1) (d) (ii) ?	None
Whether the transaction is in the nature of buying the goods for a consideration which has been paid or promised?	None
Whether the transaction in question excludes the person who obtains such goods for resale or for any commercial purpose from the purview of the Act?	None
It is true as contended for the appellants that the definition requires to be interpreted broadly so as to give effect to the legislative intention envisaged under the Act.	Reasoning
But when the legislature having defined the term consumer in broader terms, sought to exclude certain transactions from the purview of the Act what could be the meaning that would be assigned to the exclusionary clause, viz., but does not include a person who obtains such goods for resale or for any commercial purpose.	Reasoning
The intention appears to be that when the goods are exchanged between a buyer and the seller for commercial purpose or for resale, the object of the Act appears to be to exclude such commercial transactions from the purview of the Act.	Reasoning
Instead, legislature intended to confine the redressal to the services contracted or undertaken between the seller and the consumer defined under the Act.	Reasoning
It is seen that the appellants admittedly entered their letters of credit with the respondent.	Reasoning
The respondent is a statutory authority to act as canalised agency on behalf of the industries to procure required goods on their behalf from the foreign seller and acts in that behalf in terms of the letter of credit and conditions enumerated thereunder.	Reasoning
It is seen that the respondent did not undertake any direct responsibility for supply or liability for non supply of the goods.	Reasoning
On the other hand, the appellants had solicited to have the goods supplied to it through the respondent and opened letter of credit in favour of the respondent.	Reasoning
After collecting requirements from various industries in the country admittedly a consolidated demand for supply of the required quantity of the G. P. Sheets was indented with foreign sellers so as to procure the required goods for onward supply to the appellant and others.	Reasoning
The goods supplied were required for commercial purpose, i. e., for manufacture and resale as finished goods during the course of their commercial business.	Reasoning
Under the circumstances, the appellants intended to purchase these goods for commercial purpose, namely, to manufacture the tin sheets for resale.	Reasoning
It is true that the word resale used in the exclusionary clause of Section 2(1) (d) (i) was used in connection with the purchase of goods defined in the Sale of Goods Act for commercial purpose.	Reasoning
The ultimate object of the supply of the goods, namely, G. P. Sheets to the appellants was manufacture of finished goods for resale.	Reasoning
The goods were intended to be used for commercial purpose.	Reasoning
Thus considered, we are of the opinion that the appellants are not consumers by virtue of the exclusionary clause under Section a(1) (d) (ii).	Reasoning
Therefore, they would not come under Section 2(1) (d) (ii) of the Act.	Reasoning
Since the object of the supply and purchase of the goods was commercial purpose, it would certainly come within the exclusionary clause of Section 2(1) (d) (ii).	Reasoning
Otherwise, if the construction sought to be put up by Mr Sanghi is given effect to, while foreign sellers are not liable under the Act within the definition of Section 2(1) (d) (i) as they get excluded from the purview of the Act, the canalising agency would be fastened with the liability.	Reasoning
Thereby, the definition of the word consumer under Section 2(1) (d) (ii) is not attracted8.	Reasoning
Consequentially, clause (ii) of Section 2(1) (d) does not apply.	Reasoning
Considered from this perspective, we are of the opinion that the appellants are not consumer under Section 2(1) (d) (ii) of the Act Thereby the complaint would not lie under Section 21 of the Act.	Reasoning
The appeal is accordingly dismissed but, in the circumstances, without costs.	Decision
