 S. PARIPOORNAN J. The petitioner in Writ Petition No. 3086 of 1987 in the High Court of Delhi, has filed this appeal against the judgment of the High Court dated October 29, 1987.	None
The short matter that arises for consideration in this appeal is the interpretation to be placed on section 80O of the Incometax Act, 1961.	Facts
The appellant is a private company.	Facts
It is engaged in the brokerage business as reinsurance brokers.	Facts
It receives a commission at 3 to 6 per cent., relating to maritime and other insurance.	Facts
The respondent is the Central Board of Direct Taxes, Government of India, New Delhi.	Facts
In respect of insurance risk covered by Indian or foreign insurance companies, the appellant arranges for the reinsurance of a portion of the risk with various reinsurance companies either directly or through foreign brokers.	Facts
In return for the above services, the appellantcompany receives a percentage of the premium received by the foreign companies as its share of brokerage.	Facts
For a period of 19 months from March 1, 1980, the Oil and Natural Gas Commission insured all their offshore oil and gas exploration and production operations with the United India Insurance Company, Madras.	Facts
In respect of this insurance risk, the appellant contacted Sedgwick Offshore Resources Ltd., London, who are brokers in London for placement of reinsurance business.	Facts
The appellant furnished all the details about the risk involved, the premium payable, the period of coverage and the portion of the risk which is sought to be reinsured.	Facts
The said London brokers contacted various underwriters and after getting confirmation about the portion of the risk the foreign reinsurers were prepared to undertake, informed the appellant about such reinsurance coverage.	Facts
Thereafter, the Indian ceding company handed over the total premium to be paid by it to the foreign reinsurance company, to the appellant for onward transmission.	Facts
When this amount was given to the appellant, the appellant approached the Reserve Bank of India with a statement showing the amount of foreign currency payable as reinsurance premium to the foreign parties after deducting the amount of brokerage due to the appellant.	Facts
This balance amount after deducting the brokerage, was remitted to the London brokers with the permission of the Reserve Bank of India.	Facts
According to the appellant, the amount of commission retained by it was a receipt of convertible foreign exchange without a corresponding foreign remittance within the meaning of section 9 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act.	Facts
It is evident that the appellantcompany by an agreement with the foreign company, with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India remits premium received to the foreign insurance company on behalf of the Indian insurance company and while doing so, it deducts in terms of foreign exchange the fee payable to it, while making remittances themselves.	Facts
The Indian insurers make payment in rupees to the appellant for the amount of reinsurance premium to be remitted to the foreign company, furnishing all particulars with an advice to the appellant to approach the Reserve Bank of India for necessary permission to remit in U. S. dollars the reinsurance premium abroad.	Facts
Thereafter, the appellant writes to the Reserve Bank of India enclosing the remittance application in Form A2 as prescribed by the Exchange Control Manual together with the statement and auditors certificate.	Facts
These can be seen from annexure A .	Facts
A statement is also attached thereto, which shows that the gross amount of the reinsurance premium to be remitted in U. S. dollars, under the heading Balance of account and the amount of brokerage also is mentioned in U. S. dollars, earned by the appellant on the reinsurance premium to be so remitted under the heading Brokerage .	Facts
While in the normal course, the entire premium should be remitted abroad to the foreign parties and then the foreign reinsurers would remit the commission back to the appellant, who supplied the information, under the procedure adopted and approved by the Reserve Bank of India, the appellant remits the amount after deducting the brokerage, which is also expressed in foreign exchange.	Facts
Thus, the appellant entered into an agreement with Sedgwick Offshore Resources Limited, London, for supply of knowhow and, while remitting the reinsurance premium of U. S. dollars 1, 060, 891.68, the appellant remitted a fee of U. S. dollars 989, 887.20 on January 11, 1984, to the Union Bank of India, thus retaining the fee of 71, 004.48 dollars for the technical services rendered.	Facts
The appellant, stating that in the assessment years 198283 to 198485, the reinsurance brokerage determined in foreign exchange is retained in India under the agreement with Messrs. Sedgwick Offshore Resources Ltd., and so it would amount to receipt of income in terms of foreign exchange as per section 80O of the Incometax Act, sought the approval of the respondent, the Central Board of Direct Taxes as mentioned in annexure B .	Facts
The remittance statement annexed along with annexure A available at pages 2526 of the paper book, shows the following details REMITTANCE STATEMENT FOR THE PERIOD 1121983 TO 1011984 FACULTATIVE SECTION (SEDGWICK OFFSHORE RESOURCES LTD.)	None
Balance of account Brokerage Debit Credit Debit Credit Ref.	None
Particulars U. S. U. S. U. S. U. S. United India Insurance Co. Ltd 9184	None
Facultative reinsurance account Oil and Natural Gas Commission offshore acti vities package policy Period 181982, to 311 19846th and final instal ment of premium due on 1 111983 as per closing par ticular	None
No. MH ONGC/23/ 82, dated 311984 887, 667.60 60, 868.63 9184	None
Facultative reinsurance account Oil and Natural Gas Commission offshore activities package policyTerrorist cover Period 181982, to 31119846th and final instalment of premium due on 1111983, as per closing particular No. MH ONGC/22/82 dated 311984 24, 474.08 760.85 9184 Facultative reinsurance account Oil and Natural Gas Commission offshore activities package policy1st and 2nd layers6th and final instalment of premium due on 1111983, as per closing particular No MH ONGC/21/82, dated 311984 148, 750.00 9, 375.00 1, 060, 891.68 71, 004.48 Balance 1, 060, 891.68 71, 004.48 1, 060, 891.68 1, 060, 891.68 71, 004.48 71, 004.48 Balance due to you U. S. 1, 060, 891.68 Less Brokerage due by you U. S. 71, 004.48 Net balance due to you U. S. 989, 887.20 (emphasis supplied) By communication dated March 11, 1986, the respondent regretted their inability to approve the agreement submitted by the appellant for the purposes of section 80O of the Incometax Act for the reason that income under the agreement is generated in India and is not received in convertible foreign exchange as required under the provisions of section 80O.	None
The communications in that regard are evidenced by annexure C series dated March 11, 1986.	Facts
It is further seen that the steps taken by the appellant to review the annexure C proceedings were futile vide annexure D .	Facts
It is thereafter the appellant moved the High Court of Delhi in Civil Writ No. 3086 of 1987.	Facts
A Bench of the High Court of Delhi by order dated October 29, 1987, dismissed the said writ petition, stating thus.	None
The case of the petitioners is that they had to remit about one million dollars in consideration of certain services which they had conducted on behalf of the foreign company and by way of their fees, they retained the foreign exchange worth six lakhs and, therefore, they submit that it falls within the expression such income received in convertible foreign exchange in India .	Facts
We are afraid, we do not agree with the submission of learned counsel for the petitioner.	Facts
To attract this section, the assessee must receive convertible foreign exchange from abroad.	Facts
By retaining their fees they are not receiving any foreign exchange in India but only retaining the convertible foreign exchange.	Facts
We find no merit in the petition and the same is accordingly dismissed.	Facts
(emphasis supplied).	None
It is thereafter the appellant has filed the above appeal from the judgment of the Delhi High Court.	Facts
The short question that arises for our consideration is the interpretation to be placed on section 80O of the Incometax Act 80O. Deduction in respect of royalties, etc., from certain foreign enterprises.	None
Where the gross total income of an assessee, being an Indian company, includes any income by way of royalty, commission, fees or any similar payment received by the assessee from the Government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise in consideration for the use outside India of any patent, invention, model, design, secret formula or process, or similar property right, or information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific knowledge, experience or skill made available or provided or agreed to be made available or provided to such Government or enterprise by the assessee, or in consideration of technical services rendered or agreed to be rendered outside India to such Government or enterprise by the assessee, under an agreement approved in this behalf by the Chief Commissioner or the DirectorGeneral and such income is received in convertible foreign exchange in India, or having been received in convertible foreign exchange outside India, or having been converted into convertible foreign exchange outside India, is brought into India, by or on behalf of the assessee in accordance with any law for the time being in force for regulating payments and dealings in foreign exchange, there shall be allowed, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of this section, a deduction of an amount equal to fifty per cent.	None
of the income so received in, or brought into, India, in computing the total income of the assesseeProvided that the application for the approval of the agreement referred to in this section is made to the Chief Commissioner or, as the case may be, the DirectorGeneral in the prescribed form and verified in the prescribed manner before the 1st day of October of the assessment year in relation to which the approval is first sought Explanation.  	None
For the purposes of this section,  (i) convertible foreign exchange means foreign exchange which is for the time being treated by the Reserve Bank of India as convertible foreign exchange for the purposes of the law for the time being in force for regulating payments and dealings in foreign exchange (ii) foreign enterprise means a person who is a nonresident.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
It is common ground that remittance to the foreign insurance company on behalf of the Indian insurance company, as also the receipt of the amount of brokerage by the Indian company, should be done only with the concurrence of the Reserve Bank of India.	None
The remittance application along with the relevant details and the statement (annexure A ), shows the amount due to the foreign company in U. S. dollars as also the brokerage due to the appellant in U. S. dollars and adjustment is made accordingly.	None
The appellant instead of remitting the entire amount to the foreign reinsurers and then receiving remittance from the said reinsurers the commission due to it, entered into an agreement with the foreign reinsurers, that while remitting the reinsurance premia, the appellant would retain the fee due to it for the technical services rendered and this arrangement is effected only with the concurrence or the permission of the Reserve Bank of India.	None
The question in the instant case is, whether instead of remitting the amount to the foreign reinsurers first and receiving the commission due to the appellant later, the arrangement by which the appellant remitted the reinsurance premia, after retaining the fee due to it for technical services rendered, will satisfy the requirement of section 80O of the Incometax ActThe provisions similar to section 80O of the Act were originally available in the former section 85C of the Incometax Act, 1961.	Issue
While moving the Bill relevant to the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1967, the then Finance Minister highlighted the fact that fiscal encouragement needed to be given to Indian industries to encourage them to provide technical knowhow and technical services to newly developing countries.	Reasoning
It is also seen that the objective was to encourage Indian companies to develop technical knowhow and to make it available to foreign companies so as to augment the foreign exchange earnings of this country and establish a reputation of Indian technical knowhow for foreign countries.	Reasoning
The objective was to secure that the deduction under the section shall be allowed with reference to the income which is received in convertible foreign exchange in India or having been received in convertible foreign exchange outside India, is brought to India by and on behalf of taxpayers in accordance with the foreign exchange regulations.	Reasoning
So also, any income used by the taxpayers outside India in the manner permitted by the Reserve Bank of India, shall be deemed to have been brought into India in accordance with the foreign exchange regulations on the date on which such permission was given.	None
This is evident from the circular of the Central Board of Direct Taxes, New Delhi (Circular No. 138, dated June 17, 1974) which is available at pages 9 to 11 of the paper book.	None
Dr. Gaurishanker, senior counsel for the appellant (assessee), vehemently contended that the provisions of section 80O of the Incometax Act will apply to cases like the present one where the commission earned is for the supply of such information as is received by a foreign enterprise, which instead of getting the gross commission first and then remitting back to persons like the appellant its brokerage, permits the appellant to retain the amount due and remit only the net amount.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the financial and the accounting effect is the same and the mere fact that the amount is retained in India with the approval of the foreign reinsurers and the Reserve Bank of India would not take away the basic feature, that the source of income of the appellant was the agreement with the foreign reinsurers and it is in fact received from the foreign reinsurers for services rendered.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, it is contended that the transaction contemplated by section 80O of the Incometax Act need not necessarily be achieved by the form of external remittance followed by internal remittance and the legal nature and the effect of the transaction will remain the same when the amount is credited straightaway by making adjustments instead of adopting a twoway traffic.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants counsel also brought to our notice, the latest circular of the Central Board of Direct Taxes, New Delhi (Circular No. 731 (see 1996 (217) ITR(St) 5), dated December 20, 1995) which has in turn accepted that the receipt of brokerage by a reinsurance company in India from the gross premia before remittance to its foreign principals will also be entitled for deduction under section 80O of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, senior counsel for the Revenue, Sri J. Ramamurthy, laid stress on the literal language of section 80O of the Act and contended that in order to qualify for the deduction, the amount by way of royalty, commission, etc., should be received by the assessee under an agreement approved in this behalf and such income should be received in convertible foreign exchange in India.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel contended that the Central Board of Direct Taxes was justified in declining to approve the agreement submitted by the appellant since the income under the agreement is generated in India and is not received in convertible foreign exchange as required under section 80O of the ActCounsel for the Revenue brought to our notice the decision in Petron Engineering Construction P. Ltd. v. CBDT 1989 (175) ITR 523 (SC) , and contended that the income must be directly received by the assesseethe Indian company, and if it is not so directly received, any other substitute arrangement which may have the effect of receipt by the assessee is of no avail.	Arguments of Respondent
In the said case, the question that arose for consideration was, whether an Indian company doing business or having a branch or establishment in a foreign country can be called a foreign enterprise , and the question was answered in the negative.	None
It was held that the words foreign enterprise occurring in section 80O of the Act do not include a foreign branch of an Indian company.	None
In the said case, the impact of the words received by an assessee from the Government of a foreign State or foreign enterprise occurring in section 80O did not arise for consideration nor was considered.	None
The facts of the said case are distinguishable.	None
Circular No. 731 (see 1996 (217) ITR(St) 5), dated December 20, 1995, promulgated by the respondent filed as annexure B (page 8 of the supplementary paper book) is relevant and affords guidance in understanding the purport of section 80O of the Act.	None
Section 80O of the Incometax Act, 1961  Deduction  Royalties, etc., from certain foreign enterprises  	None
In case of receipt of brokerage by reinsurance agent, operating in India on behalf of principals abroad, from gross premia before remittance to his foreign principals.	None
7. Circular No. 731, dated 20121995 1.	None
Under the provisions of section 80O of the Incometax Act, 1961, an Indian company or a noncorporate assessee, who is resident in India, is entitled to a deduction of fifty per cent.	None
of the income received by way of royalty, commission, fees etc., from a foreign Government or foreign enterprise for the use outside India of any patent, invention, model, design, secret formula or process, etc., or in consideration of technical or professional services rendered by the resident.	None
The deduction is available if such income is received in India in convertible foreign exchange or having been converted into convertible foreign exchange outside India, is brought in by or on behalf of the Indian company or aforementioned assessee in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973, for the time being in force 2.	None
Reinsurance brokers, operating in India on behalf of principals abroad, are required to collect the reinsurance premia from ceding insurance companies in India and remit the same to their principals.	None
In such cases, brokerage can be paid either by allowing the brokers to deduct their brokerage out of the gross premia collected from Indian insurance companies and remit the net premia overseas or they could simply remit the gross prentia and get back their brokerage in the form of remittance through banking channels 3.	None
The Reserve Bank of India have expressed the view that since the principle underlying both the transactions is the same, there is no difference between the two modes of brokerage payment.	None
In fact, the former method is administratively more convenient and the reinsurance brokers had been following this method till 1987 when they switched over to the second method to avail of deduction under section 80O of the Act 4.	None
The matter has been examined.	None
The condition for deduction under section 80O is that the receipt should be in convertible foreign exchange.	None
When the commission is remitted abroad, it should be in a currency that is regarded as convertible foreign exchange according to FERA.	None
The Board are of the view that in such cases the receipt of brokerage by a reinsurance agent in India front the gross premia before remittance to his foreign principals will also be entitled to the deduction under section 80O of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
(emphasis supplied)	None
The said circular which seeks to declare and clarify the real scope and impact of section 80O of the Act, is certainly binding on the respondent which issued it.	None
The facts brought out in this case are clear as to how the remittance to the foreign reinsurance company is made through the Reserve Bank of India in conformity with the agreement between the appellant and the foreign reinsurers, and that the remittance statement filed along with annexure A which evidences that the amount due to the foreign reinsurers as also the brokerage due to the appellant and the balance due to the foreign reinsurers is remitted (and expressed so) in dollars.	None
It is common ground that the entire transaction effected through the medium of the Reserve Bank of India is expressed in foreign exchange and in effect the retention of the fee due to the appellant is in dollars for the services rendered.	Reasoning
This, according to us, is receipt of income in convertible foreign exchange.	Reasoning
It seems to us that a twoway traffic is unnecessary.	Reasoning
To insist on a formal remittance to the foreign reinsurers first and thereafter to receive the commission from the foreign reinsurer, will be an empty formality and a meaningless ritual, on the facts of this case.	Reasoning
On a perusal of the nature of the transaction and in particular the statement of remittance filed in the Reserve Bank of India regarding the transaction, we are unable to uphold the view of the respondent that the income under the agreement is generated in India or that the amount is one not received in convertible foreign exchange.	Reasoning
We are of the view that the income is received in India in convertible foreign exchange, in a lawful and permissible manner through the premier institution concerned with the subjectmatter  the Reserve Bank of India.	Reasoning
In this view, we hold that the proceedings of the Central Board of Direct Taxes dated March 11, 1986, declining to approve the agreements of the appellant with Sedgwick Offshore Resources Ltd., London, for the purposes of section 80O of the Incometax Act, are improper and illegal.	Reasoning
We declare so.	Reasoning
We direct the respondent to process the agreements in the light of the principles laid down by us hereinabove.	Decision
The appeal is allowed.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
