 Beg, J.1.	None
The petitioner, a citizen of India, has filed this Habeas Corpus petition challenging the order of his detention, dated 24111972, passed under Section 5 clause (a) of Maintenance of Internal Security Act, 1971 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).2.	Issue
It appears that the petitioner was actually arrested on 20111972 and that the detention order was passed subsequently on 24111972, and, on that very date, the petitioner was served with the document containing the sole ground of detention given as follows1.	Facts
That on 111072 at about 01.55 hrs., you along with your associates, being armed with bombs and other weapons, victimised Wagon No. NR 17393 Ex Bro to KPD attached to running goods train in EC 349 DN near the Booster Substation of Dum Dum Jn.	Facts
R S when the train slowed down for traffic restriction and committed theft in respect of tea chests.	Facts
Train guard RPF party challenged you and your associates when you hurled bombs towards the RPF party.	Facts
RPF RK Sitaram Rai fired one round in self defence when you and your associates fled away leaving behind three chests of tea at the P. O.Your action caused disruption of train service for a considerable time and affected supplies and services.	Facts
You have thus acted in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of supplies and services essential to the community.	None
After giving what is marked as ground number 1 only, implying thereby that there was no other ground of detention the document proceedsYou are hereby informed that you may make a representation to the State Government against the detention order and that such representation shall be addressed to the Assistant Secretary, Home (Special) Department, Government of West Bengal and forwarded through the Superintendent of the Jail in which you have been detained as clearly as possible.	Facts
Under Section 10 of the Maintenance of Internal Security Act, 1971 (Act 26 of 1971)	Facts
your case shall be placed before Advisory Board within thirty days from the date of your detention under the order.	Facts
You are also informed that under Section 11 of the Maintenance of Internal Security Act, 1971 (Act 26 of 1971), the Advisory Board shall if you desire to be so heard, hear you in person, and, if you desire to be heard by the Advisory Board, you shall intimate such desire in your representation to the State Government.3.	Facts
An annexure to the affidavit filed by a Special Secretary in the Home Department of the Govt. of West Bengal, who was the District Magistrate concerned when the impugned detention order was made against the petitioner, is copy of the petitioners representation addressed to the Government.	None
In the representation as well as in the petition before us, the petitioner asserts that the allegations against him are absolutely antrue.	Arguments of Petitioner
In his application to this Court he state that it is palpably false and impracticable to allege that the petitioner, with some associates, committed theft of some tea chests from a running wagon and that he fled when challenged, leaving behind three chests of tea at the P. O. Be that as it may, it is difficult to understand what is meant by the P. O.	Arguments of Petitioner
In his representation to the Government, the petitioner had submitted that there was no evidence that he was identified by anybody as a participator in the incident.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the affidavit in opposition to the petition, the official concerned, who had passed the detention order, statedThe running goods train as stated therein actually means a goods train which had come to a stop due to traffic restriction and not actually a running one as sought to be suggested by the petitioner.	Arguments of Respondent
The affidavit also contained the statementIt appears from the records that the petitioner is a notorious wagon breaker operating near Dum Dum Junction Railway Station.5.	None
Learned Counsel appearing for the State of West Bengal was asked to explain how the petitioner could possibly make an effective representation against his detention when the District Magistrate concerned had a stationery train in mind which he actually described as a running goods train in the grounds of detention, when it was not indicated what was meant by the P. O., and when the allegation that the petitioner was a notorious wagon breaker operating near Dum Dum Junction Railway Station was never communicated to him although it, apparently, formed one of the grounds on which the detention was ordered.	Arguments of Respondent
In reply, learned Counsel for the State of West Bengal stated that he had the whole record before him on which the detention was ordered and he placed that record before us.	Arguments of Respondent
We were unable to find any mention in this record that the petitioner was a notorious wagon breaker.	Reasoning
On the other hand, we found a description there of the modus operandi of a gang of thieves operating on passenger trains which used to deprive the passengers of their trunks and other goods while one of the members of the gang sat near the passengers with a newspaper spread out in front of him which would be read out loudly to district their attention and used also to obstruct their view.	Reasoning
It is mentioned there that the activities of this gang commenced after the incident of 11101972.	None
It is also mentioned there that a number of incriminating articles were recovered from members of this gang thieves including the petitioner and that prosecutions were pending against them.6.	Reasoning
It is true that the incident which occurred at about 2 a. m. on 11101972, forming the ground of detention, is also mentioned in the record, but there is no indication as to how any information whatsoever came to the District Magistrate from any source whatsoever that the petitioner was a member of the gang which was concerned with such an incident.	Reasoning
Presumably, this was the whole record as learned Counsel for the State informed us.	Reasoning
This makes petitioners assertion, that he was not only arrested on 20101972 for reasons not disclosed to him, but, when sufficient evidence could not be found against him by the local officials, a detention order was made on a ground, covered by the Act, which could be conveniently trotted out at the time, seem plausible.	Reasoning
Deprivation of a citizens personal liberty is a serious matter.	Reasoning
Those exercising drastic powers of preventive detention, which are entrusted to them for protecting valuable social and public interests, should at least take care to ascertain whether a detention is being ordered in a manner and on materials which disclose that it is really necessary to order a detention with a view to preventing the person to be detained from acting in any manner prejudicial to the objects for which preventive detention may be lawfully ordered.	Reasoning
If they misuse these powers, by acting unreasonably, capriciously, arbitrarily, or in a mala fide manner, public confidence in them is shaken.	Reasoning
We are unable to say whether the District Magistrate acted unreasonable in making the detention order.	Reasoning
But, presuming that, whatever was in the record operated, as learned Counsel for the State asserted, against the petitioner, he should have been fuller information of allegation against him.	Reasoning
It is not explained why this was not done.7.	Reasoning
We are not concerned herewith the adequacy or sufficiency of a ground of detention.	Reasoning
There is clearly a nexus between the sole ground for detention given and the maintenance of essential supplies and services.	Reasoning
But, as indicated above, we have found that matters which were never communicated to the petitioner also appear to have been taken into account while ordering the detention of the petitioner.	Reasoning
Furthermore, the sole ground of detention is vague in so far as it is not apparent what is meant by the words the P. O. Recently, it was held by this Court in Prabhu Dayal Deorah v. District Magistrate, Kamrup, AIR 1974 SC 183 (1974 Cri LJ 286), that vagueness of a single ground could vitiate a detention order.	Reasoning
The ground given could not, in our opinion enable the petitioner to effectively exercise his constitutional right of making a representation against his detention.8.	Reasoning
The result is that we allow this petition and declare the detention of petitioner to be illegal.	Decision
We order that the petitioner be released forthwith.9.	Decision
Petition allowed.	Decision
