 Hidayatullah, J. 1.	None
These are eight appeals against the judgment and decree of the High Court of Allahabad dated July 15, 1960, with special leave granted by this Court.	Issue
By the writ petitions, which failed before the High Court, the appellants had asked that Resolutions Nos. 90, 94 to 96 and 99 to 102 passed by the Executive Council of the Benaras Hindu University on May 15, 1960, terminating their services from June 1, 1960, be quashed.	None
The names of the appellants, the posts they held and the gist of the Resolutions passed against them have been set down below Group	None
I 1.	None
Dr. Akshaibar Lal (C. A. No. 482 of 1960)	Facts
Reader in College of Agriculture.	Facts
(Resolution No. 100  4 months pay in lieu of notice) 2.	Facts
Dr. Gopal Tripathi (C. A. No. 482 of 1960) Professor of Chemical Engineering and Principal, College of Technology.	Facts
(Resolution No. 101  4 months pay in lieu of notice)	Facts
3. Pandit Ram Vias Pandey (C. A. No. 486 of 1960)	Facts
Reader and Head of Department of Jyotish  Sanskrit Mahavidyalaya.	None
(Resolution No. 99  Under cls 4 and 7 of the agreement dated March 26, 1931 and Ordinance No. 6 of the Ordinances of the University  6 months pay in lieu of notice).	Facts
4. Dr. Gauri Shankar Tiwari (C. A. No. 487 of 1960)	Facts
Lecturer in Chemistry  Central Hindu College (Kamachha) (Resolution No. 102  4 months pay in lieu of notice)	Facts
Group II 5.	None
Dr. Ram Deo Misra (C. A. No. 481 of 1960)Professor and Head of Department of Botany, College of Science.	Facts
(Resolution No. 94  under cls.	None
4 and 7 of the agreement dated February 3, 1959 and Ordinance No. 6 of the Ordinances of the University 4 months pay in lieu of notice) 6.	Facts
Mr. Ganesh Prasad Singh (C. A. No. 483 of 1960)	Facts
Lecturer in Physical Education, Teachers Training College.	Facts
(Resolution No. 95  under cls.	None
4 and 7 of the agreement dated January 18, 1946 and Ordinance No. 6 of the Ordinances of the University 6 months pay in lieu of notice) 7.	Facts
Mr. Radhey Shyam Sharma (C. A. No. 484 of 1960) Lecturer, College of Technology (Resolution No. 90  under cls.	Facts
4 and 9 of the agreement dated January 21, 1957 and Ordinance No. 6 of the Ordinances of the University  4 months pay in lieu of notice) 8.	Facts
Dr. Ram Yash Roy (C. A. No. 485 of 1960) Lecturer in Botany, College of Science.	Facts
(Resolution No. 96  under cls.	None
4 and 7 of the agreement dated August 12, 1932 and Ordinance No. 6 of the Ordinances of the University  6 months pay in lieu of notice).	Facts
2.	None
The cases of the appellants are very similar but fall into two groups as indicated above.	Facts
The differences are not many, and some of them are indicated in the gist of the Resolutions noted against their names.	Facts
Other differences will appear from the facts, which are given below.	Facts
3.	None
The affairs of the Benaras Hindu University, for reasons with which we are not concerned, had been deteriorating, and a situation had arisen which required intervention immediately.	Facts
The President of India, in his capacity as Visitor and in exercise of the powers conferred by S. 5 (2) of the Benaras Hindu University Act, 1915, appointed a Committee of Enquiry (known as the Mudaliar Committee) consisting of 1.	Facts
Dr. A. L. Mudaliar (President) 2.	Facts
Mr. M. C. Mahajan 3.	Facts
Dr. P. Subbarayan 4.	Facts
Smt.	Facts
Sucheta Kripalani 5.	Facts
Dr. Nairoji Wadia (Members) to enquire into and report, inter alia, on the general state of discipline in the University, keeping in view the disturbances in some of the Institutions of the University, and to suggest remedies and measures of reform for the betterment of acamedic life and efficient functioning of the University.	Facts
The Committee made a report suggesting that a Screening Committee should be appointed to review the appointments made to the teaching staff and the work of the teaching staff, and that action should be taken in the light of the findings of the Screening Committee.	Facts
4.	None
On June 14, 1958, the President of India promulgated an ordinance (IV of 1958) to amend the Benaras Hindu University Act, 1915.	Facts
By S. 8 of the Ordinance, the Statutes of the University were amended, and in place of Statute No. 30, another Statute was substituted, which set up a Screening Committee, consisting of (a) a person who is or has been a Judge of a High Court (Chairman), (b) the ViceChancellor ( Ex officio ) and (c) a person having administrative or other experience in educational matters, to examine the cases of all persons holding teaching administrative or other posts in the University at the commencement of the Ordinance, in respect of whom there was reason to believe that their continuance in office would be detrimental to the interests of the University, and to forward its recommendations to the Executive Council to take such action as it may deem fit.	Facts
5.	None
The Ordinance of the President was repealed by the Benaras Hindu University (Amendment) Act, 1958 (XXXIV of 1958), which reenacted Statute No. 30 as follows 30.	Facts
(1) If the Executive Council has reason to believe that the continuance in office of any person who on the 14th day of June 1958, was holding any teaching, administrative or other post in the University would be detrimental to the interests of the University, it may, after recording briefly the grounds for such belief, refer the case of any such person together with the connected papers, if any, in its possession, to the SolicitorGeneral to the Government of India Provided that where an allegation of the nature referred to in this subsection relates to a member of the Executive Council who was holding any teaching , administrative or other post in the University on the said date, the Executive Council shall, without considering the allegation, refer the case of such person together with a copy of the allegation, to the SolicitorGeneral to the Government of India.	Facts
2.	None
If on any such reference the SolicitorGeneral to the Government of India is of opinion that there is a prima facie case for inquiry, he shall refer the case of the person concerned to a Committee to be constituted for the purpose by the Central Government and known as the Reviewing Committee, which shall consist of the following persons, namely  (a) a person who is or has been a Judge of a High Court nominated by the Central Government who shall be the Chairman of the Committee and (b) two persons nominated by the Central Government from among persons who have had administrative or other experience in educational matters.	Facts
3.	None
It shall be the duty of the Reviewing Committee to examine the case of every person referred to it by the SolicitorGeneral and the Reviewing Committee shall, after holding such inquiry into the case as it may think fit, and after giving to the person concerned an opportunity of being heard, if he so desires forward its recommendations to the Executive Council.	Facts
4.	None
The meetings of the Reviewing Committee shall be convened by such person as may be appointed for this purpose by the Chairman.	Facts
5.	None
On receipt of the recommendations of the Reviewing Committee, the Executive Council shall take such action thereon as it may think fit Provided that when the recommendations relate to any such person as is referred to in the proviso to subsection (1), such person shall not take part in any meeting of the Executive Council in which the recommendations are considered.	Facts
6.	None
Before taking any action against any person on the recommendations of the Reviewing Committee, the Executive Council shall give him a reasonable opportunity of being heard.	Facts
6.	None
Under the powers granted by this Statute and after sundry procedure, the SolicitorGeneral sent up the cases of the appellants (and some others, who are not before us) to the Reviewing Committee.	Facts
The appellants appeared before the Reviewing Committee and represented their cases.	Facts
Except in the case of Mr. Radhey Shyam Sharma (Civil Appeal No. 484 of 1960), whose case was kept pending because certain matters were sub judice, the Reviewing Committee sent its findings to the University.	Facts
These findings were considered in respect of the four appellants in Group I (above) and on February 13, 1960 the Executive Council passed Resolutions Nos. 436 to 439 calling upon them to show cause why their services be not terminated, in view of the findings of the Reviewing Committee that the continuance in office of those appellants was detrimental to the interest of the University, which the Executive Council had accepted.	Facts
These four appellants showed cause on March 5, 1960.	Facts
No notices were, however, sent to the four appellants in Group II above, and this is one distinguishing feature in the cases.	Facts
7.	None
The four appellants (Group I) filed petitions under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution (W. Ps.	Facts
Nos. 712 to 715 of 1960) on March 9, 1960, in the High Court of Allahabad for relief against the proposed action.	Facts
On the same day, D. S. Mathur, J. passed an ad interim orders as follows The respondents Nos. 1 to 3 are directed until further orders, not to take any further proceedings against the petitioners.	Facts
The Registrar of the University then applied to the High Court, and on April 25, 1960, Jagdish Sahai, J. made the following order.	None
In supersession of the interim order dated 931960, I order that the proceedings before respondent No. 2 Executive Council of Benaras Hindu University, arising out of the recommendations of the Reviewing Committee shall remain stayed.	Facts
8.	None
On May 15, 1960, the Executive Council of the University passed a number of Resolutions.	Facts
Resolution No. 89 took into consideration the explanations sent by the four appellants (Group 1) on March 5, 1960, and the order of the High Court, and it was resolved . . . . . . . .	Facts
that the consideration of the above cases be postponed till after the writ petitions abovementioned are disposed of by the High Court.	Facts
9.	None
On the same day, however, Resolutions Nos. 99 to 102 were passed terminating the services of the four appellants (Group I) from June 1, 1960, giving to them four or six months salary, in lieu of notice.	Facts
In the Resolution concerning Pandit Ram Vyas Pandey, there was a mention that the action was taken under Cls. 4 and 7 of the agreement executed by him and Ordinance No. 6 of the Ordinances of the University.	Facts
In the remaining three cases, it was not stated under what exercise of powers the action was taken.	Facts
Even earlier than the notice to show cause issued on February 13, 1960, explanations were called from Pandit Ram Vyas Pandey and Dr. Gopal Tripathi by Resolution Nos. 278 and 281 dated September 9, 1959, and these explanations were ordered to be filed by Resolution No. 103 passed on the same day.	Facts
Four Resolutions were also passed terminating the services of the other appellants belonging to Group II.	Facts
10.	None
It was after these Resolutions were communicated that the eight petitions were filed by the appellants in the High Court of Allahabad.	Facts
The High Court by a common judgment, which is under appeal, dismissed all the petitions with costs.	Facts
11.	None
The case of the appellants, broadly stated, is that the Executive Council could not take recourse to the provisions of Ordinance No. 6 of the Ordinances of the University, having started action under Statute No. 30 that Ordinance No. 6 was subordinate to Statute No. 30 and could not prevail where Statute No. 30 applied, that action against the four appellants in Group I was stayed by the High Court and Resolution No. 89, and that any action thereafter under the agreement or Ordinance No. 6 was incompetent.	Arguments of Petitioner
The action of the Executive Council was characterised as mala fide and a fraud upon the University Act and Statute No. 30.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court did not accept any of these contentions.	None
Before us, the same points have been urged again, and in reply, the University contends that the Executive Council could take action under the terms of the agreements, where such agreements existed, or under Ordinance No. 6 or Statute No. 30 at its option and that where alternative remedies were provided by law, all or any of the remedies could of invoked.	Arguments of Respondent
12.	None
Before we deal with these arguments, it is necessary to examine closely the powers of the Executive Council of the University, as they can be gathered from the Benaras Hindu University Act, the Statutes and Ordinances framed under it.	None
The Act was passed in 1915 (XVI of 1915), but it was amended in 1930, 1951 and 1958.	None
Originally, the Act provided for the framing of Statutes and Regulation by the University but in 1951, the existing Regulations were deemed to be the first Ordinances under S. 18(2) of the amended Act.	None
A further power to make Regulations was conferred by S. 19.	None
Thereafter, there were Regulations in addition to the University Act, Statutes and Ordinances.	None
We are not concerned with the Regulations, and no reference need be made to them except to say that they ranked below the Ordinances and had to be consistent with the Act, the Statutes and the Ordinances.	Reasoning
13.	None
In the Act, the word Statute was defined to mean the Statute for the time being in force, and there was an analogous definition of the word Ordinances.	None
Section 17(2) of the Act enacted that the first Statutes shall be those set out in Schedule 1.	None
The power to frame Statutes was conferred on the Executive Council by S. 17(3) but was subject to the previous approval of the Visitor.	None
This subsection, as it was amended by S. 4 of the Banaras Hindu University (Amendment) Act, 1958, read as follows The Executive Council may, from time to time, make new or additional Statutes or may amend or repeal the Statutes but every new Statute or addition to the Statutes or any amendment or repeal of a Statute shall require the previous approval of the Visitor who may sanction, disallow or remit it for further consideration.	None
Section 4A of the Act invested the University with powers, and subsecs.	None
(7) and (13) may be quoted here 7.	None
to institute professorships, readerships, lectureships and other teaching posts required by the university and to appoint persons to such professorships, lectureships and other posts 13.	None
to create administrative, ministerial and other necessary posts and to make appointments thereto.	None
Section 7 of the Act named the officers and authorities of the University, but power was reserved to the University to declare, by statutes, other officers and authorities of the University.	None
14.	None
In addition to being an authority of the University, the Executive Council was appointed the executive body of the University.	None
Subsection (2) of S. 10 of the Act laid down The Executive Council shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be vested in it by the Statutes.	None
Section 17 of the Act provided how the Statutes were to be framed and what they were to contain.	None
We have already referred to the first Statutes of the University which were placed in Schedule I of the Act and the power of the Executive Council to make new or additional Statutes or to amend or repeal existing Statutes, subject to the prior approval of the Visitor.	None
Section 17 provided 17(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act the Statutes may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	None
(c) the appointment, powers and duties of the officers of the University.	None
15.	None
From the above analysis, it is clear that the Act created the Executive Council as an authority and the executive body of the University but its powers were conferred and its duties were created by the Statutes.	Reasoning
The source of powers and duties in respect of the Executive Council was thus the Statutes under the authority of the Act.	None
16.	None
Section 18 of the Act (as amended in 1951) provided 18(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Statutes, the Ordinances may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely Ordinances (k) the emoluments and terms and conditions of service of teachers of the University.	None
The Ordinances were thus made subordinate to the Act and the Statutes, and could not go beyond them or derogate from them, 17.	None
One more provision of the Act as amended in 1951 may be read here.	None
It is S. 19A, which provided 19A. (1) Every salaried officer and teacher of the University shall be appointed under a written contract, which shall be lodged with the University and a copy of which shall be furnished to the officer or teacher concerned.	None
2.	None
Any dispute arising out of a contract between the University and any of its officers or teachers shall, at the request of the officer or teacher concerned or at the instance of the University, be referred to a Tribunal of Arbitration consisting of one member appointed by the Executive Council, one member nominated by the officer or teacher concerned and an umpire appointed by the Visitor, and the decision of the Tribunal shall be final.	None
18.	None
The powers granted to the Executive Council by the Statutes may now be seen.	None
Statute No. 18 was amended in 1958, and is referred to, as amended.	None
It laid down 18(1).	None
The Executive Council shall, subject to the control of the Visitor have the management and administration of the whole revenue and property of the University and the conduct of all administrative affairs of the University.	None
2. subject to the provisions of the Act, the Statutes and the Ordinances, the Executive Council shall in addition to all other powers vested in it, have the following powers namely (i) To appoint, from time to time . . .	None
.,	None
Principals of Colleges and institutions established by the University, and such Professors, Readers, Lecturers and other members of the teaching staff, as may be necessary, on the recommendation of Selection Committees constituted for the purpose (Proviso omitted) (ii) to appoint members of the administrative staff or to delegate the power of appointment to such authority or authorities, or officers as the Executive Council may, from time to time, by resolution, either generally or specially direct . . .	None
The power of appointment was thus conferred by the Statutes on the Executive Council.	None
19.	None
We now turn to the Ordinances, where the disciplinary rules are to be found.	None
On October 13, 1958, the Executive Council by Resolution No. 181 reconstituted the material Ordinance.	None
Chapter III in part I of the Benaras Hindu University Calendar (1958) contains the terms of appointment, grades, salary and conditions of service of teachers, officers and other employees of the University.	None
That Chapter is divided into many Sections and subsections.	None
Section 5 deals with teaching and administrative posts, and S. 6, with the conditions of service and terms of appointment.	None
Ordinance No. 2 in this Section lays down The conditions of service of the staff shall be embodied in the Agreement Form of service.	None
Every employee shall on confirmation sign the agreement Form Ordinance No. 6, before its amendment, read The Executive Council shall be entitled to terminate the engagement of an employee (i) on grounds of misconduct and (ii) physical unfitness for good cause and after calling for and considering his explanation and after giving four months notice in writing or payment of four months salary in lieu of notice.	None
The Ordinance was unhappily worded.	None
The expression physical unfitness for good cause hardly makes sense.	None
More difficulty arises by the use of the conjunction and.	None
That word used for the first time in the Ordinance is obviously used disjunctively but on the second and third time it is used conjunctively, introducing two conditions precedent.	None
So far, there is no dispute, though much bad drafting.	None
Dispute arises over the last use of the conjunction and in the Ordinance.	None
The appellants contend that it must be read conjunctively as introducing a third condition precedent, while the University urges that it is a separate power of termination unconnected with the others.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court was persuaded to read the clause as interpreted by the University and, in our opinion, rightly.	None
20.	None
In 1958, the Executive Council reframed this Ordinance but surprisingly enough, without any better success.	None
The reenacted Ordinance, as printed in the amendment slip, read 6.	None
The Executive Council shall be entitled to terminate the engagement of an employee for (i) misconduct, or (ii) physical unfitness, or (iii) inefficiency, or (iv) breach on his part of one or more of the terms of his agreement with the University, after calling for and considering his explanation in each of the cases mentioned above or (v) after giving four months notice or payment of four months salary in lieu thereof.	None
21.	None
The dispute this time arises from the careless use of the word or.	Reasoning
The Ordinance mentions four reasons for termination of services, which are numbered (i) to (iv).	Reasoning
In each of those cases, there is the condition precedent that explanation must be called for and considered.	Reasoning
So far, the meaning is clear, even though the drafting is far from commendable.	Reasoning
Then follow a semicolon and or and number (v).	Reasoning
The word or does not seek to create an option between calling for and considering an explanation and a four months notice, etc.	Reasoning
The number (v) and the semicolon between mentioned above and or do not permit this reading.	Reasoning
The difficulty, however, does not end there.	None
If we read the fifth clause as connected independently with the opening words, we get this The Executive Council shall be entitled to terminate the engagement of an employee for. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	None
v. after giving four months notice . . .	None
which makes the word for superfluous in the sentence.	None
22.	None
In our opinion, the sense of the Ordinance can be obtained by rearranging the matter thus 6.	None
The Executive Council shall be entitled to terminate the engagement of an employee  for (i).	None
misconduct, or (ii) physical unfitness, or (iii) inefficiency, or (iv) breach on his part of one or more of the terms of his agreement with the University, after calling for and considering his explanation in each of the cases mentioned above or (v) after giving four months notice or payment of four months salary in lieu thereof.	None
This means that, if action is taken under cls.	None
(i) to (iv), an opportunity of showing cause against the termination of the service must be given but action can also be taken to terminate the service, without assigning a cause, on four months notice or four months salary in lieu of notice.	None
The case of the University is that all these orders of termination of service were passed under the power granted by cl.	Reasoning
(v) of this Ordinance, modified by the terms of the agreements as they existed.	Reasoning
23.	None
The result of this analysis shows that the power of the University to terminate the services of the incumbents was derived from (a) agreements, (b) Ordinances, and (c) Statute No. 30.	Reasoning
The agreements merely represented the general right of a master to terminate the services of incumbents, where they were subject to agreements, after reasonable notice, without giving any reason.	Reasoning
The Ordinances, in addition to preserving that right, gave power to terminate service for proved misconduct, inefficiency or physical unfitness.	Reasoning
These powers, unless used according to the stated conditions, were unexercisable, and in the case of a service which was protected against arbitrary action, being permanent, could only be invoked in an appropriate instance.	Reasoning
In those cases which would fall within the categories of proved misconduct, inefficiency and physical unfitness, the University was required to take action in accordance with the Ordinance and the Rules.	Reasoning
24.	None
This was the position before the new Statute No. 30 was added by Parliament.	None
The legislative measure was undertaken as the result of the sorry state of affairs of the University, and a special ground was required to be proved.	None
It was that the continuance of an incumbent was detrimental to the interests of the University.	None
The power to terminate the services of an incumbent on this ground was hedged in which appropriate safeguards due to the struggle for power which, it is said had arisen in the University in the past and though the Mudaliar Committee had suggested a Screening Committee to go into the cases of all teachers, Parliament thought it necessary that before any case reached the Screening Committee (renamed the Reviewing Committee)	None
it should be scrutinised by the SolicitorGeneral.	None
The procedure which the new Statute enacted, ensured fairplay and proper scrutiny.	None
First, the Executive Council had to resolve that the continuance in office of any particular person was detrimental to the interests of the University.	None
The reasons for such belief had to be recorded briefly, and the Resolution together with the connected papers had to sent to the SolicitorGeneral.	None
In the case of a teacher who was a member of the Executive Council, the Executive Council was not to consider the allegations but to send the papers to the SolicitorGeneral.	None
The SolicitorGeneral had to decide if there was a prima facie case for enquiry, and then he was to refer suitable cases to the Reviewing Committee.	None
The Reviewing Committee was then to enquire into the matter, and forward its recommendations to the Executive Council.	None
The Executive Council was thereafter required to proceed under Cl.	None
(6), which was as follows Before taking any action against any person on the recommendations of the Reviewing Committee, the Executive Council shall give him a reasonable opportunity of being heard.	Facts
The power of the Executive Council was conferred by Cl. 5 which provided On receipt of the recommendations of the Reviewing Committee, the Executive Council shall take such action thereon as it may think fit.	None
25.	None
The procedure laid down in Statute No. 30 was followed by the University.	None
The cases of the appellants went before the SolicitorGeneral and then before the Reviewing Committee.	None
In seven cases out of eight, the Reviewing Committee gave its opinion.	None
In four out of seven cases, a showcause notice was issued under Cl. 6 but not in others and the four appellants (Group I) also showed cause.	None
They also obtained a stay from the High Court of Allahabad against action under Statute No. 30 and the Executive Council decided to postpone consideration of their cases.	None
But the Executive Council abandoned action under Statute No. 30, and proceeded to act under powers which, it thought, flowed from the agreements and the Ordinances, and terminated the services of the eight appellants, giving four or six months salary in lieu of notice.	None
26.	None
In so far as the power of terminating services without notice was concerned, the general power could not be invoked, when allegations of conduct detrimental to the interests of the University had already been made and scrutinised by the SolicitorGeneral and the Reviewing Committee and the matter was pending before the Executive Council.	None
The powers granted by the Ordinances are expressly subject to the Statutes, and the Ordinances cannot prevail over the Statutes.	None
27.	None
Statute No. 30 provided for special action in special circumstances.	None
The existence of the special circumstances is expressly admitted, inasmuch as the cases were referred to the Reviewing Committee.	None
The existence of the special circumstances and the special remedy excluded the right of the University to invoke its general powers, not to start with, but after the special procedure had been deliberately adopted and had commenced.	None
If the cases of these appellants had not been sent to the SolicitorGeneral and the Reviewing Committee at all, other considerations might have arisen.	None
The question is whether after the special procedure was once invoked, it could be dropped in the middle and other powers exercised.	None
28.	None
The University relies on three arguments in this connection.	Arguments of Respondent
It is first contended that the powers of the University were cumulative, and that the University could resort to any of the remedies open to it.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance is placed in support of this argument on Shankar Sahai v. Din Dial, ILR 12 All 409 (FB) (observations of Mahmood, J., at p. 418), Om Prakash Gupta v. State of U. P., 1957 SCR 423 ((S) AIR 1957 SC 458 ), State of Madhya Pradesh v. Veereshwar Rao, 1957 SCR 868 ( (S) AIR 1957 SC 592 ), Brockwell v. Bullock, (1889) 22 QBD 567, Seward v. Vera Cruz, (1884) 10 AC 59 and Barker v. Edger, 1898 AC 748.	Arguments of Respondent
It is not necessary to refer to these cases in detail.	None
It has been laid down recently by this Court that, where the law allows alternative remedies, one or the other or both can be invoked unless one remedy is expressly or by necessary implication excluded by the other.	None
(See State of Kerala v. C. M. Francis and Co., Civil Appeal No. 279 of 1959 D  12121960 (AIR 1961 SC 617 ).	None
The question thus is whether there is anything expressly stated by law or clearly implied which would exclude powers under the agreements and the Ordinances, when action has been taken under the Statutes.	None
The University Act expressly makes the Ordinances subject to the Statutes, and in case of any clash between them, the Ordinances must be made to stand down.	None
Further, Statute No. 30 was enacted by Parliament to meet a special situation, and contained a code for dealing with certain special kinds of cases.	Reasoning
To that extent, the implication is not only one way, but is also clear.	Reasoning
The University could not, having started enquiries under Statute No. 30 abandon the enquiries in midcourse and pass on to something else.	Reasoning
This is illustrated by the contradictory Resolutions passed on the same day.	Reasoning
In the case of the four appellants belonging to Group I, action under Statute No. 30 was deferred till after the decision of the High Court.	Reasoning
But one is tempted to ask what possible further action was contemplated when their services were terminated the same day.	Reasoning
It may be pointed out here that dropping of action under Statute No. 30 deprived the appellants of the right to show cause against what had been alleged against them or found by the Reviewing Committee.	None
29.	None
The appellants characterised the whole action as lacking in bona fides.	None
The action can only be questioned if it is ultra vires, and proof of alien or irrelevant motive is only an example of the ultra vires character of the action, as observed by Warrington, L. J., in the following passage My view then is that only case in which the Court can interfere with an act of a public body which is, on the fact of it, regular and within its powers, is when it is proved to be in fact ultra vires, and that the references in the judgments in the several cases cited in argument to bad faith, corruption, alien and irrelevant motives, collateral and indirect objects, and so forth, are merely intended when properly understood as examples of matters which if proved to exist might establish the ultra vires character of the action in question (Short v. Poole Corporation, 19261 Ch 66 at pp. 9091).	None
We are not concerned so much with the motives, nor even the justice of the action as with its legality, and, in our opinion, having invoked Statute No. 30 in the special circumstances and having gone on with that procedure, it was not possible to undo everything and rely upon other powers, which were not only subordinate but were clearly not available in those special circumstances which led to action under Statute No. 30.	None
30.	None
The next argument is that Statute No. 30 itself left liberty of action, inasmuch as Cl. 5 gave power to the Executive Council to act as it thought fit.	Arguments of Respondent
To begin with, it is wrong to think that the words conferring discretion are to be read in the abstract.	None
Those words have to be read within the four corners of Statute No. 30.	Reasoning
The words are permissive, no doubt, as to the choice of action, but are imperative in so far as they require some act completing the intent and purpose of the enquiry itself.	Reasoning
The words shall take such action thereon as it may think fit give liberty of action on the recommendations of the Reviewing Committee, but lay a duty to form an opinion.	Reasoning
The words do not give a discretion to take action outside the Statute. 31.	None
Lastly, it is argued that the Executive Council as the appointing authority had the power also to dismiss, and reference is made to Ss. 4(7) and 4(13) of the Act and S. 16 of the General Clauses Act.	Arguments of Respondent
None can deny that the University did possess such a power.	None
The question is whether it exercised it correctly under the Statutes and Ordinances.	Reasoning
We are quite clear that the Executive Council did not.	Reasoning
We may say here that we have not accepted the contention that the action of the Executive Council was based upon malice or any indirect or oblique motive.	None
The error was in thinking that there were cumulative or alternative powers, even after the adoption of the special procedure under Statute No. 30.	None
We are, therefore, of opinion that the impugned Resolutions were ultra vires and should be quashed.	Reasoning
32.	None
In the result, the appeals are allowed.	Decision
Resolutions Nos. 90, 94 to 96 and 99 to 102 dated May 15, 1960, of the Executive Council of the Banaras Hindu University are quashed, and an appropriate writ or writs shall issue to the respondents to that effect.	Decision
The respondents shall pay the costs of these appeals, as also of the High Court.	Decision
Only one set of hearing fee here and in the High Court shall be allowed.	Decision
33.	None
Appeals allowed.	Decision
