 ABDUL NAZEER, J. Leave granted.	None
These appeals have been preferred by Digamber Vaishnav and Girdhari Vaishnav challenging the judgment and order dated 30.04.2015 passed by the High Court of Chhattisgarh at Bilaspur, in Criminal Reference No.3 of 2014, affirming the death sentence imposed by the Sessions Judge, Baloda Bazar and dismissing the criminal appeal Nos. 536 of 2014 and 537 of 2014 filed by them challenging the aforesaid judgment and order of the Sessions Judge.	Issue
The prosecution story in brief is that the complainant, Badridas Vaishnav lives in village Khapridih.	Facts
He is a retired teacher.	Facts
Bhuneshwar was his brother.	Facts
Both were living in separate mohallas.	Facts
Bhuneshwar Das had two wives, namely, Shri Bai and Subhadra Bai.	Facts
From Shri Bai, Bhuneshwar had seven daughters.	Facts
From Subhadra Bai, he had five daughters and a son.	Facts
Bhuneshwar Das had expired two years back.	Facts
Mala, Kondi, Chandni, Nandini, Sharda and son Govinda were residing in the house apart from Shri Bai and Subhadra.4.	Facts
On 17.12.2012, at about 4 p.m., Chandni came to the house of PW1, Badridas and informed him that Shri Bai, Subhadra, Kondi, Amrika and Mala Bai are lying dead in the courtyard and in a room.	Facts
The complainant along with his wife Shanti Bai and Chandni immediately rushed to the house of Bhuneshwar and saw that Amrika and Mala Bai were lying dead at parchhi and Shri Bai, Subhadra and Kondi were lying dead in the room.	Facts
There was bleeding from the nose and mouth of deceased and there were marks of injuries on the neck.5.	Facts
The complainant lodged the report of the occurrence in Police Outpost Gidhouri, where report (Exhibit P6) was registered as per the statement of the complainant which was registered as FIR in Crime No.430/12 in the Police Station Bilaigarh.	Facts
Marg intimations of Subhadra Bai, Shri Bai, Kondi, Mala Bai and Amrika Bai were registered as per the information given by Badridas.	Facts
Witnesses were summoned for the examination of the dead body of the deceased.	Facts
Panchanama of the deceased was prepared in the presence of the witnesses.	Facts
The doctor submitted postmortem reports after conducting postmortem of all the deceased.	Facts
The cause of death of all the deceased was asphyxia due to strangulation and the deaths were homicidal in nature.	Facts
After postmortem report, the dead bodies of all the deceased persons were handed over to their relative Badridas for cremation.6.	Facts
The investigating officer drew the map of the place of occurrence in the presence of the witnesses.	Facts
The police seized a bottle of Golden Goa Whiskey (made of glass) and a plastic torch which were lying at the place of occurrence.	Facts
Six strands of black hair stuck between the fingers of right hand of the deceased Kondi, two white coloured buttons lying between dead bodies, blood stained soil, plain soil and one woolen shawl were also seized from the place of occurrence.	Facts
The police also seized a shirt worn by the appellant No.1.	Facts
Memorandum statement of the accused Digamber was recorded as per his dictation wherein he stated that he has kept the motorcycle at the house of Girdhari and Rs.3000/ and anklet (pair patti) was kept in his house.	Facts
A sum of Rs.3000/ and anklet were seized after taking it out from the pocket of trousers of Digamber.	Facts
Memorandum statement of accused Girdhari was recorded wherein he stated that he has concealed Rs.2600/ and pair patti in carry bag at his house.	Facts
Cash and a pair patti kept in a plastic carry bag were produced by the accused Girdhari from inside his house which were seized.	Facts
Shirt worn by accused Digamber was removed and seized and one white coloured shirt with two missing buttons was seized from the accused Girdhari.	Facts
Consent panchanama was prepared for taking the hair (of head) of accused Digamber and Girdhari and the hair (of head) of accused were seized.	Facts
Seized articles were sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory.7.	Facts
An application was made to finger print expert for examination of finger prints on the wine bottle seized from the place of occurrence.	Facts
Report of Police Headquarter (Finger Prints) was received, according to which finger prints of accused Digamber were found on the bottle of Golden Goa Whiskey.	Facts
FSL Report regarding button of the shirt of the appellants and the buttons seized from the place of occurrence was also received wherein two buttons and threads were stated to be similar.8.	Facts
The police recorded the statement of PW1, Badridas, Sheetal Das, Smt.	Facts
Shanti Bai, Kumari Chandni, PW8, Anita Bai and Dan Bai, Sohandas, PW9 under Section 161 of Cr.	Facts
P.C.	Facts
After completion of investigation, chargesheet was filed in the court of Judicial Magistrate, who committed the case to the Sessions Court.9.	Facts
In order to prove their case, the prosecution examined 14 witnesses.	Facts
The appellants were also examined under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C.	Facts
wherein they pleaded that they are innocent and have been falsely implicated in the offence.10.	Facts
The Sessions Court by its judgment dated 14.05.2014 came to the conclusion that prosecution has successfully proved beyond doubt that the appellants have committed robbery in the house of the deceased persons and committed murder of all the five ladies.	Facts
Each of the appellants was sentenced with R.I. for ten years and fine of Rs.500/, in default of payment of fine, they will further undergo one months R.I. for the offence under Section 394 read with Section 34 of IPC.	Facts
They were also sentenced with capital punishment for the offence under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC and ordered that they will be hanged till death.11.	Facts
The Death Reference under Section 366(1) of the Cr.P.C. was sent to the High Court for confirmation.	Facts
The appellants preferred separate appeals before the High Court.	Facts
As noticed above, the High Court by its judgment dated 30.04.2015 affirmed the judgment of the Sessions Court.	Facts
Appearing for the appellants Sh.	Arguments of Petitioner
S. Nagamuthu, learned senior counsel has mainly contended that there was an unexplained delay in reporting the offence.	Arguments of Petitioner
Secondly, the courts below have mainly relied on the testimony of PW8.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW8 is a child witness who was present in the house at the time of the incident.	Arguments of Petitioner
She is not a witness to the actual incident.	Arguments of Petitioner
Her testimony has not been corroborated.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, it is risky to rely on uncorroborated identification of the appellants at her instance.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further argued that the evidence of recoveries made under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act is also unreliable.	Arguments of Petitioner
The recovery of motorcycle is also unreliable and that the articles recovered are not connected to the crime.	Arguments of Petitioner
The testimony of PW9 is hearsay and cannot be relied upon by the prosecution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even the finger print report cannot be relied on.	Arguments of Petitioner
Finally, he submits that the evidence of last seen is insufficient to establish the guilt.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Sh.	Arguments of Respondent
Atul Jha, learned counsel appearing for the respondent, has supported the judgment of the courts below.	Arguments of Respondent
He prays for dismissal of the appeals.	Arguments of Respondent
We have carefully considered the submissions of the learned counsel made at the Bar and perused the materials placed on record.	None
One of the fundamental principles of criminal jurisprudence is undeniably that the burden of proof squarely rests on the prosecution and that the general burden never shifts.	Reasoning
There can be no conviction on the basis of surmises and conjectures or suspicion howsoever grave it may be.	Reasoning
Strong suspicion, strong coincidences and grave doubt cannot take the place of legal proof.	Reasoning
The onus of the prosecution cannot be discharged by referring to very strong suspicion and existence of highly suspicious factors to inculpate the accused nor falsity of defence could take the place of proof which the prosecution has to establish in order to succeed, though a false plea by the defence at best, be considered as an additional circumstance, if other circumstances unfailingly point to the guilt.	Reasoning
This Court in Jaharlal Das v. State of Orissa, (1991) 3 SCC 27 , has held that even if the offence is a shocking one, the gravity of offence cannot by itself overweigh as far as legal proof is concerned.	None
In cases depending highly upon the circumstantial evidence, there is always a danger that the conjecture or suspicion may take the place of legal proof.	None
The court has to be watchful and ensure that the conjecture and suspicion do not take the place of legal proof.	None
The court must satisfy itself that various circumstances in the chain of evidence should be established clearly and that the completed chain must be such as to rule out a reasonable likelihood of the innocence of the accused.	None
In order to sustain the conviction on the basis of circumstantial evidence, the following three conditions must be satisfied i.)	None
the circumstances from which an inference of guilt is sought to be drawn, must be cogently and firmly established ii.)	None
those circumstances should be of a definite tendency unerringly pointing towards the guilt of the accused and iii.)	None
the circumstances, taken cumulatively, should form a chain so complete that there is no escape from the conclusion that within all human probability the crime was committed by the accused and none else, and it should also be incapable of explanation on any other hypothesis than that of the guilt of the accused.	None
In Varkey Joseph v. State of Kerala, 1993 Suppl (3) SCC 745, this Court has held that suspicion is not the substitute for proof.	None
There is a long distance between may be true and must be true and the prosecution has to travel all the way to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt.	None
In Sujit Biswas v. State of Assam, (2013) 12 SCC 406 , this Court, while examining the distinction between proof beyond reasonable doubt and suspicion has held as under Suspicion, however grave it may be, cannot take the place of proof, and there is a large differ ence between something that may be proved, and something that will be proved.	None
In a criminal trial, suspicion no matter how strong, cannot and must not be permitted to take place of proof.	None
This is for the reason that the mental distance between may be and must be is quite large, and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions.	None
In a criminal case, the court has a duty to ensure that mere conjectures or suspicion do not take the place of legal proof.	None
The large distance between may be true and must be true, must be covered by way of clear, cogent and unimpeachable evidence pro duced by the prosecution, before an accused is condemned as a convict, and the basic and golden rule must be applied.	None
In such cases, while keeping in mind the distance between may be true and must be true, the court must maintain the vital distance between mere conjectures and sure con clusions to be arrived at, on the touchstone of dis passionate judicial scrutiny, based upon a com plete and comprehensive appreciation of all fea tures of the case, as well as the quality and credi bility of the evidence brought on record.	None
The court must ensure, that miscarriage of justice is avoided, and if the facts and circumstances of a case so de mand, then the benefit of doubt must be given to the accused, keeping in mind that a reasonable doubt is not an imaginary, trivial or a merely prob able doubt, but a fair doubt that is based upon reason and common sense.	None
It is also wellsettled principle that in criminal cases, if two views are possible on evidence adduced in the case, one binding to the guilt of the accused and the other is to his innocence, the view which is favourable to the accused, should be adopted.	Reasoning
This principle has a special relevance in cases wherein the guilt of the accused is sought to be established by circumstantial evidence See Kali Ram v. State of Himachal Pradesh, (1973) 2 SCC 808 .	Reasoning
Bearing these principles in mind, we shall now consider the contentions of the learned counsel for the parties.	None
In coming to the conclusion that the accused have committed the offence, the prosecution has relied on Testimony of child witness Kumari Chandni (PW8)	None
The recoveries made under Section 27 of the Evidence Act The fingerprint report FSL report Motive of committing robbery and Evidence of last seen together.	None
The case of the prosecution is mainly dependent on the testimony of Chandni, the child witness, who was examined as PW8.	Reasoning
Section 118 of the Evidence Act governs competence of the persons to testify which also includes a child witness.	Reasoning
Evidence of the child witness and its credibility could depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.	Reasoning
There is no rule of practice that in every case the evidence of a child witness has to be corroborated by other evidence before a conviction can be allowed to stand but as a prudence, the court always finds it desirable to seek corroboration to such evidence from other reliable evidence placed on record.	Reasoning
Only precaution which the court has to bear in mind while assessing the evidence of a child witness is that witness must be a reliable one.22.	Reasoning
This Court has consistently held that evidence of a child witness must be evaluated carefully as the child may be swayed by what others tell him and he is an easy prey to tutoring.	Reasoning
Therefore, the evidence of a child witness must find adequate corroboration before it can be relied upon.	Reasoning
It is more a rule of practical wisdom than law.	Reasoning
See Panchhi and others v. State of U.P, (1998) 7 SCC 177 , State of U.P. v. Ashok Dixit and another, (2000) 3 SCC 70 , and State of Rajasthan v. Om Prakash, (2002) 5 SCC 745 .	None
In Alagupandi alias Alagupandian v. State of Tamil Nadu, (2012) 10 SCC 451 , this Court has emphasized the need to accept the testimony of a child with caution after substantial corroboration before acting upon it.	None
It was held that It is a settled principle of law that a child witness can be a competent witness provided statement of such witness is reliable, truthful and is corroborated by other prosecution evidence.	None
The court in such circumstances can safely rely upon the statement of a child witness and it can form the basis for conviction as well.	None
Further, the evidence of a child witness and credibility thereof would depend upon the circumstances of each case.	Reasoning
The only precaution which the court should bear in mind while assessing the evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be a reliable one and his her demeanour must be like any other competent witness and that there exists no likelihood of being tutored.	Reasoning
There is no rule or practice that in every case the evidence of such a witness be corroborated by other evidence before a conviction can be allowed to stand but as a rule of prudence the court always finds it desirable to seek corroboration to such evidence from other reliable evidence placed on record.	None
Further, it is not the law that if a witness is a child, his evidence shall be rejected, even if it is found reliable.	None
It is clear from the testimony of PW8 that she is not an eyewitness to the incident.	Reasoning
She was aged about 9 years at the time of the incident.	Reasoning
Her evidence is fraught with inconsistencies.	Reasoning
None of the other witnesses have identified the appellants.	Reasoning
Therefore, heavy reliance was placed on the testimony of PW8.	Reasoning
She did not tell PW1, Badridas about the appellants while disclosing about the incident for the first time.	Reasoning
This is reflected from the FIR which has been registered against unknown persons.	Reasoning
In such circumstances, it is risky to rely on the uncorroborated identification of the appellants at the instance of PW8, who has not disclosed about the appellants at the first instance before PW1 Badridas.	Reasoning
Shanti Bai, PW3, wife of PW1 has stated that PW8 informed her that her mother had gone to work.	None
This is in direct contradiction with the fact that as per the prosecution story, she was lying dead.	None
Chandni herself states that in the morning, she saw her grandmother dead.	None
Further, FIR records Badridas as saying that Chandni told him that Subhadra Bai is lying dead in her room.	None
The testimony of PW8 also contradicts with that of PW10.	None
PW10 states that herself and Anita had gone to the house of the deceased at 3 A.M. and had seen the bodies of the deceased and also the children.	None
However, PW8 states that she got up at 7.00 A.M. and that wife of Tekram (Anita) opened the door.	None
The testimony of PW8 also contradicts that of PW1, Badridas.	None
According to PW1, he was informed about the incident only at about 2 to 2.30 P.M. by Chandni.	None
However, PW8 states that It is correct to suggest that in the morning, I had told Badridas that who had killed them.	None
I did not know them.	None
At this stage, it is relevant to notice that there was an unexplained delay in reporting the crime, as rightly pointed out by the learned senior counsel for the appellants.	Reasoning
PW8 in her deposition has stated that when she woke up in the morning, her room was locked from outside.	Reasoning
When she shouted from inside, wife of Tekram (Anita) opened the door.	Reasoning
This version is further corroborated by PW10, Dan Bai, who has stated that in the morning at about 3 a.m. on Monday that Anita had opened the door of their house from outside.	Reasoning
The children were inside the room.	Reasoning
Amrika Bai, Kondi, Subhadra Bai and Shri Bai were lying dead.	Reasoning
Though, Anita had opened the door at about 3 a.m., it is unexplained why PW8 did not inform anyone till 4 pm and the same was also unreported by PW10, even though the police station was at a distance of some six kilometers.	Reasoning
This also raises question about veracity of the statement of PW8, Chandni.29.	Reasoning
The second circumstance relied upon by the prosecution is the evidence of recovery.	Reasoning
Under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, it is not the discovery of every fact that is admissible but the discovery of relevant fact is alone admissible.	Reasoning
Relevancy is nothing but the connection or the link between the facts discovered with the crime.	Reasoning
The recovery of the motorcycle is sought to be relied upon as a circumstance against the appellants.	Reasoning
There is nothing on record to show that the motorcycle recovered at the instance of appellant No.1, belongs to him.	Reasoning
PW13, IO, in his crossexamination admits that he does not know whether the appellant No.1 is the owner of the motorcycle.	Reasoning
He further admits that no attempts were made by him to enquire about the owner of the vehicle.	Reasoning
Testimony of PWs 4 and 5 is also unreliable since it contradicts that of PW10.	None
As per PW10, herself and Anita had seen the bodies of the deceased at 3 a.m.	None
She did not see the assailants and does not mention anything about the motorcycle.	None
Hence, there is no occasion for the assailants of the deceased to remain in the house and hence the motorcycle would not be outside the house of the deceased at 4 p.m. PWs 4 and 5 contradict each other.	None
While PW4 states that the motorcycle was of Bajaj Company, PW5 mentions it as a motorcycle from Hero Honda Company.	None
PW5 in his examinationinchief says that he had moved the motorcycle to allow the tractor to pass.	None
However, in his crossexamination, he says that he did not move the motorcycle and it was PW4, who moved it.	None
PW5 does not even state the day or month when he saw the motorcycle.	None
PW2 was the witness to the seizure of the motorcycle.	Reasoning
According to him, the motorcycle was red in colour.	Reasoning
However, as per the seizure memo, the recovered motorcycle was black in colour.	Reasoning
This makes the recovery of the motorcycle unreliable.	Reasoning
It is relevant to state that the police recorded the statement of PWs 4 and 5 after delay of over two months.32.	Reasoning
Coming to the recovered articles, the silverpatti recovered at the instance of the appellants, is alleged to have been that of the deceasedShri Bai.	Reasoning
However, no witness identifies the silverpatti as belonging to any of the deceased.	Reasoning
PW2 states that the type of anklet that was seized is easily available in the market.	Reasoning
Hence, in the absence of any identification of the seized anklet, no reliance can be placed on its recovery.	Reasoning
The evidence of Rajesh Vaishnav, PW2, who is the witness to the seizure memo, is contrary to the memos brought on record.	Reasoning
The witness deposes that the statements of the accused were recorded thrice, i.e. in Gidhauri Chowk, Khapridih and Barbhatha.	Reasoning
Moreover, he states that the seizures from appellant No.2 took place in Kharri village and the memorandum of procedure took place in the station.	Reasoning
This is in direct contradiction with the seizure memo, which states that seizures have taken place in Barbhatha.33.	Reasoning
The cash has not been traced back to the deceased as the box from which articles were allegedly stolen has not been recovered or seen by any witness.	Reasoning
Even in the FIR, there is no averment of any article or money being stolen or lost.	Reasoning
Therefore, when the money allegedly recovered is being sought to be relied upon as stolen from the house of the deceased, the same is unreliable when there is nothing on record to support the claim of theft or robbery from the scene of crime.34.	Reasoning
Chandni, PW8 has deposed that wife of Tekram (Smt.	Reasoning
Anita) had opened the door at 3.00 A.M.	Reasoning
She has not been examined by the prosecution and no reasons have been assigned to explain this anomaly.	Reasoning
Considering the conflicting statements of the witnesses examined by the prosecution, Anita would be in a position to have seen the appellants at the house around 3 A.M.	Reasoning
She would have been the first person to have seen the deceased persons and deposed about the circumstances after the incident.	Reasoning
It is also relevant that there were other three children present in the house at the time of the incident.	Reasoning
No attempts have been made to examine them as well.	Reasoning
Thus, the best evidence which would have been thrown light on the controversy in question has been withheld.35.	Reasoning
Sohandas, PW9 has been relied on for corroborating the testimony of Chandni, the child witness.	Reasoning
Reliance has been placed on her witness to show the presence of the appellants at the house.	Reasoning
Sohandas had deposed only on the basis of a telephone call from Amrika Bai that Digamber has come to see Kondi.	Reasoning
PW9 does not know the name of Ghirdhari.	Reasoning
He has referred to a boy accompanying appellant No.1, which is not sufficient to show the acquaintance.	Reasoning
He has not seen the appellants coming into the house.	Reasoning
Therefore, his evidence is not sufficient to place the appellants at the scene of crime.36.	Reasoning
The expert, who examined the articles at the place of occurrence and found some finger prints, has not been examined.	Reasoning
The person who took the sample finger prints has not been examined.	Reasoning
The finger prints had been lifted on 17.12.2012 whereas the articles were seized on 18.12.2012.	Reasoning
There is no explanation about why the articles were just left at the scene after developing the finger prints and why they were not seized and sent for analysis on the same day.	Reasoning
Further, no prints have been found on the doors or the steel almirah to substantiate the robbery.	Reasoning
The examination of expert is crucial especially if reliance is placed on the finger print report to suspect the guilt of the appellant.	Reasoning
PW12, Panch witness to the seizure of bottles states that the bottle was lying near the door of the courtyard was seized.	Reasoning
This makes the process of the lifting the print suspicious.37.	Reasoning
The shirt of appellant No. 2 recovered from him in pursuance of his statement under Section 27 of the Evidence Act is allegedly matched with the small broken button found at the scene of crime.	Reasoning
This has been relied upon by the courts below as another circumstance to corroborate the presence of the appellants at the scene of crime.	Reasoning
However, there is nothing on record to show that the shirt is unique and cannot be matched with the shirt of any other person.	Reasoning
PW13 has admitted in his testimony that shirts of the same kind are easily available in the market.	Reasoning
In such circumstances, it cannot be conclusively proved that the shirts are in any way unique to the appellants shirt to the exclusion of everyone else.	Reasoning
Therefore, the reliance placed with analysis of the shirt in the absence of any unique make thereof is improper.38.	Reasoning
The forensic evidence against the appellants to prove their presence at the scene of crime is insufficient.	Reasoning
The findings of the hair analysis are also inconclusive.	Reasoning
The report only concluded the specimen to the human hair.	Reasoning
The same is not sufficient to substantiate the presence of the appellants.39.	Reasoning
The prosecution has alleged robbery as motive for the commission of the offence.	Reasoning
It is sought to be sustained by the recovery of some cash and a pair of silver patti that has not been identified by any witness.	Reasoning
The site plan panchanama shows that gold ornaments, pearl necklace, silver ornaments, etc. were left behind on the person of the deceased.	Reasoning
It is not explained as to why appellants would intend to commit robbery but leave expensive ornaments behind.	Reasoning
The entire motive of robbery is negated if these facts are considered as it seems implausible that persons with an intent to commit robbery would leave without precious ornaments that were on the person of the deceased.	Reasoning
This has unsubstantiated the entire motive for the commission of the offence, as alleged by the prosecution.40.	Reasoning
The prosecution has relied upon the evidence of PW8 to show that the accused and victims were last seen together.	Reasoning
It is settled that the circumstance of last seen together cannot by itself form the basis of holding accused guilty of offence.	Reasoning
If there is any credible evidence that just before or immediately prior to the death of the victims, they were last seen along with the accused at or near about the place of occurrence, the needle of suspicion would certainly point to the accused being the culprits and this would be one of the strong factors or circumstances inculpating them with the alleged crime purported on the victims.	Reasoning
However, if the last seen evidence does not inspire the confidence or is not trust worthy, there can be no conviction.	Reasoning
To constitute the last seen together factor as an incriminating circumstance, there must be close proximity between the time of seeing and recovery of dead body.	Reasoning
In Arjun Marik Ors.	None
v. State of Bihar, 1994 Supp (2) SCC 372, it has been held as under Thus the evidence that the appellant had gone to Sitaram in the evening of 1971985 and had stated in the night at the house of deceased Sitaram is very shaky and inconclusive.	None
Even if it is accepted that they were there it would at best amount to be the evidence of the appellants having been seen last together with the deceased.	None
But it is settled law that the only circumstance of last seen will not complete the chain of circumstances to record the finding that it is consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused and, therefore, no conviction on that basis alone can be founded.	None
In Kanhaiya Lal v. State of Rajasthan, (2014) 4 SCC, 715 , the Court has reiterated that the last seen together does not by itself lead to the inference that it was the accused who committed the crime.	None
It is held thus The circumstance of last seen together does not by itself and necessarily lead to the inference that it was the accused who committed the crime.	None
There must be something more establishing con nectivity between the accused and the crime.	None
Mere nonexplanation on the part of the appellant, in our considered opinion, by itself cannot lead to proof of guilt against the appellant.	None
PW8 in her evidence has stated that the accused had come one day before in the night, and next day, Amrika, Mala, Badi Amma, Amma and Kondi Didi had died.	Reasoning
She is a child witness.	Reasoning
We have already noticed that she has not witnessed the incident.	Reasoning
PW1 in his evidence says that PW8 had come to his house at 2.00 to 2.30 P.M. and informed him about the death of the deceased persons.	Reasoning
PW8 has not disclosed the identity of the appellants to PW1.	Reasoning
That is why the FIR was registered against unknown persons.	Reasoning
We have also noticed the inconsistencies in her evidence apart from the fact that the other children present in the house on that day were not examined.	Reasoning
There is a substantial loss of time from when PW8 saw the deceased and the appellants together on 16.12.2012 and when the deceased were found on 17.12.2012.	Reasoning
In such circumstances, it is difficult to draw an inference that the appellants had committed the crime.	Reasoning
In view of the above, the appeals succeed and are allowed.	Decision
The judgment and order passed by the High Court of Chhattisgarh at Bilaspur dated 30.04.2015 in Criminal Reference No.3 of 2014 and Criminal Appeal Nos. 536 of 2014 and 537 of 2014 are hereby set aside.	Decision
The judgment and order dated 14.05.2014 passed by the Sessions Judge, Baloda Bazar, Chhattisgarh in Sessions Case No.5 of 2014 is also set aside.	Decision
The appellants accused are hereby acquitted for the offences for which they were tried and they shall be released forthwith, unless required in any other case cases.	Decision
