 These appeals, by certificate granted under Section 261 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the Act), Have be en filed by the assessee against the judgement of the Madras High Court dated November 2, 1981.	Facts
By the said judgment the High Court has answered the following question referred to it by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as the Tribunal) against the assessee and in favour of the Revenue.	None
Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case the revision of assessment under Section 263 by the Commissioner for withdrawing the development rebate granted for assessment years 1962 63.	Issue
196364 196768 and 196869 is proper and justified.	None
The assessee as a partnership firm having been constituted on September 1.1960.	None
It was r unning a steel rolling mill.	Facts
Initially, there were four partners, namely, M s S.L.Nahata, M.S.Bedi, Biharilal and M.K.Raheja, in the assessee firm.	Facts
Two of the partners Biharilal and M.K.Raheja, subsequently retired from the partnership and the partnership was reconstituted with the remaining two partners continuing the same business.	Facts
On March 3, 1968, Shri M.S. Bedi one of the two partners died.	Facts
Since only one surviving partner was left the partnership stood dissolved.	Facts
On March 4, 1968 a new partnership was constituted comprising of Shri S.L.Nahata and the Legal heirs of Shri M.S. Bedi to carry on the business under taking previously carried on by the partnership firm of which shri M.S. Bedi was a partner.	Facts
In these appeals we are concerned with the partnership firm as it existed prior to its dissolution on March 3, 1968.	None
The assessee firm had obtained the benefit of Development Rebate under Section 33(1) (a) of the Act during the assessment years in question.	None
Since the partnership stood dissolved on March 3, 1968, before the expiry of the period of 8 years the Commissioner of Income Tax, in exercise of the powers conferred on him under Section 263 of the Act withdrew Development Rebate that had been granted to the assessee for the said assessment years.	None
Feeling aggrieved by the said order of the Commissioner, the assessee filed an appeal before the Tribunal which was decided against the assessee.	None
At the instance of the assessee the Tribunal referred the question above mentioned for the opinion of the High Court.	None
The question raised involves interpretation of the provisions of Section 33(1) (a) and 34(3) which at the relevant time read as under Development Rebate 33(1) (a), In respect of a new ship or new machinery or plant (other than office appliances or road transport vehicles) which is owned by the assessee and is wholly used for the purposes of the business carried on by him, there shall, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of this section and f Section 34, be allowed a deduction, in respect of the previous year in which the ship was acquired or the machinery or plant was installed or, if the ship , machinery or plant is first put to use in the immediately succeeding previous year, then, in respect of that previous year, a sum by way of development rebate as specified in clause (b)34.	Arguments of Respondent
Conditions for depreciation allowance and development rebate 34(3) (a), The Deduction referred to in Section 33 shall no be allowed unless an amount equal to seventy five cent of the Development Rebate to be actually allowed is debited to the profit and loss account of the relevant previous years and credited to reserve account to be utilised by the assessee during a period of eight years next following for the purposes of the business undertaking, other than (i) for distribution by way of dividends or profits or(ii) for remittance outside India as profits or for the creation of any asset outside IndiaProvided that this clause shall not apply where the assessee is a company, being a licensee within the meaning of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 54 of 1948, or where the hip has been acquired or the machinery or plant has been installed before the 1st day of January, 1958.Provided further that where a ship has been acquired after the 28th day of February, 1966 this clause shall have effect in respect of such ship s if for the words seventy five , the word fifty had been substituted.	None
Explanation.	None
For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the deductio n referred to in section 33 shall both be denied by reason only that the amount debited to the profit and loss account of the relevant previous year and credited to the reserve account aforesaid exceeds the a mount of the profit of such previous year (as arrived at without making the debit aforesaid ) in accordance with the profit and loss account.(b)	None
If any ship, machinery or plant is sold or otherwise transferred by the assessee to any person at any time before the expiry of eight years from the end of the previous year in which it was acquired or installed, any allowance made under section 33 or under the corresponding provisions of the Indian IncomeTax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922) , in respect of that ship, machinery or plant shall be deemed to have been wrongly made for the purposes of this Act, and the provisions of subsect ion (5) of Section 155 Shall apply accordinglyProvided that this clause shall not apply  (i) where the ship has been acquired of the machinery or plant has been installed before the Ist d ay of January, 1958 or(ii) Where the ship machinery or plant is sold or otherwise transferred by the assessee to the Government, a local Authority, a corporation established by a Central, State or provincial Act or a Government company as defined in section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or(iii)	None
Where the sale or transfer of the ship, machinery or plant is made in connection with the amalgamation or succession, referred to in subsection (3) or subsection (4) of section 33.	None
These provisions indicate that under Section 33(1)(a) the benefit of Development Rebate was available in respect of a new sip or new machinery or plant which was (i) owned by the assessee and (ii) was wholly used for the purposes of the business cared on by him.	Arguments of Respondent
The availability of the said benefit of Development Rebate under Section 33(1) (a) was however, subject to the provisions of Section 34.	None
Under clause (a) of subsection (3) of section 34 deduction under Section 33 was permissible only if an amount equal to 75 of the amount of Development Rebate that was actually allowed was credited to a reserve account to be utilised by the assessee during a period of eight years next following for the purposes of the business of the undertaking.	None
In clause (b) it was prescribed that in the event of the ship, machinery or plant in relation to which development rebate has been allowed being sold or otherwise transferred by the assessee before the expiry of the period of eight years from the end of the previous year in which it was acquired or installed, the allowance made in respect of it shall be deemed to have been wrongly made and the assessing officer may recompute the total income of the assessee for the relevant previous year and made the necessary amendment under Section 155(5) of the Act .	None
This is, however, subject to the exception contained in the proviso to clause (b).	None
The High Court has held As part of the fundamental requirement for the grant of Development Rebate, is a necessary first step.	None
but that alone is not enough.	None
The reserve account has got to be utilised by the assessee for the purposes of the business of the undertaking for a period of eight years running immediately following the installation of the machinery .	None
The implication of these condition are that were the assessee does not utilises the reserve account for the purposes of his business during a period of 8 years , then the very condition on which the rebate is granted would remain unfulfilled.	None
Hence the original grant of Development Rebate itself must perforce be regarded as having been made without the necessary condition being fulfilled therefore.	None
The High Court has observed that in the present case the assessee firm became extinct before the expiry of the eightyear period and what came afterwards was different entity even if it comprised only the surviving partner and the deceased partners legal representatives, According to the High Court there was a basic failure of the fact situation in the assessees case to fit in with the terms of the statutory grant of Development Rebate implicit in the Statutory provisions.	None
Ms. Janki Ramachandran, the learned counsel appearing for the assessee, has submitted that Development Rebate is granted in respect of a business and that under section 33(1)(a) and Section 34(3)(a) what is required is that the business must be continued for t he prescribed period of eight years and that in the present case after the dissolution of the old partnership, the new partnership carried on the same business and therefore, the benefit of the Development Rebate could not be withdraw n. the learned counsel has placed reliance on the decisions of this court in Malabar Fisheries Co Vs. Commissioner of income Tax, Kerala, and commissioner of Income Tax Bangalore vs J.H.Gotla.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learn ed counsel has also invited our attention to the Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Finance Bill, 1958 whereby the provisions relating to grant of development Rebate as contained in Section 10 of the Income Tax Act, 1922 were amended.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dr. Gauri Shankar, the learned senior counsel appearing for the Revenue, has on the other hand, submitted that the High Court has rightly construed the provisions contained in Sections 33(1) (a) and 34(3)(a) of the Act and the said view taken by the High Court is in consonance with the object sought to be achieved by the said provisions.	Arguments of Respondent
he has in this context, invited our attention to the report of the Taxation Enquiry commission (195354) which was the basis for introducing the provisions relating to development rebate in the Income Tax Act, 1922.	Arguments of Respondent
It has been pointed that the said report shows that the object underlying the grant of development rebate is that it would afford as a direct stimulus to expansion and quicker replacement and aid the efficiency and competitive power of the industries.	Arguments of Respondent
The submission is that have regard to the object underlying the said provision the development rebate can be available only to a particular assessee in respect of his business.	Arguments of Respondent
Dr. Gauri Shankar has also pointed out that wherever the legislature intended to extend a particular tax benefit in circumstances where the partnership stood dissolved, an express provision has been made in that regard and he has invited our attention to subsection (5A) of section 32 AB where in express provision has been made for withdrawal of the amount standing to the credit of the assessee in the investment Deposit Account before the expiry of the period o	Arguments of Respondent
f five years from the date of deposit in the event of dissolution of a firm.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel has urged that since the provisions contained in Sections 33(1)(a) and 34(3)(a) do not make any provision regarding dissolution of a partnership firm and speak of the assessee only, it must be held that the expression assessee in these provisions means the partnership firm as it stood before dissolution and would not cover a newly constituted firm after the dissolution of the old firm.	Arguments of Respondent
Having regard to the words which is owned by the assessee and is wholly used for the purposes of the business carried on by him, in Section 33(1)(a) it must be held that the benefit of development rebate is available only to the assessee which is owning the machinery or plant and is using it wholly for the purpose of the business carried on by him.	Arguments of Respondent
Similarly in Section 34(3)(a) the words used are to be utilised by the assessee during a period of eight years next following for t he purposes of the business of the undertaking.	None
The grant of development rebate under Section 33(1) (a) is subject to the condition laid down in Section 34(3)(a) which means that assessee who has obtained the development rebate under Section 33(1)(a) must also be the assessee who should utilise the amount credited to the Reserve Account during the period of eight years next following for the purposes of the business of the undertaking for which the development rebate was given.	None
in other words, the expression by the assessee in these provisions refer to the same assessee.	None
The condition for grant of rebate under Section 33 read with Section 34(3)(a) would not b satisfied if the assessee who has availed the rebate ceases to exist before the expiry of the period of eight years.	None
The decisions on which reliance has been placed by Ms. Ramachandran have no direct bearing on the point in issue.	None
In Malabar Fisheries Co (supra) this Court has const rued the expression transfer in the context of Section 34(3)(b) of the act .	None
In the instant case, we are not concerned with transfer of machinery or plant by the appellantassesse.	None
Here the assessee firm had ceased to exist as a result of dissolution before the expiry of the period of eight years.	None
In Commissioner of Income Tax V. J.H. Gotla (Supra) this Court, while considering the provisions of Section 16(1)(c) of the Income Tax Act, 1922, has observed t hat where the plain literary in terpretation of a statutory provision produces a manifestly unjust result which could never have been intended by the Legislature, the Court might modify the language so as to achieve that intention of the Legislature and produce a rational const ruction.	None
We are unable to hold that the said principle requires to be invoked while construing Section 33(1)(a) and opinion, has rightly held that in view of Section 34(3)(a) the appellant  assessee could not avail the benefit of development rebate.	None
The other contention of Ms. Ramachandran was that the Commissioner could not invoke his jurisdiction under Section 263 of the Act and that the matter could be dealt of rectification under Section 155 of the Act.	None
The submission is that since Section 155 is a special provision dealing with the partnership firms, the general provision Contained in Section 263 could not be invoked.	Reasoning
It was also contended that the power under Section 263 can only be invoked on the basis of the record as it stood when the order was passed by the Income Tax Officer and that it was not open to the Commissioner to take into account the dissolution of the assessee firm, which took place after the passing of the order, because that circumstance is not disclosed in the record before the Income Tax officer.	Reasoning
As pointed out by the High Court , no question as to the competence of the Commissioner to exercise his power s of decision was raised by the assessee either before the Commissioner or before the Tribunal.	Reasoning
Even otherwise there is no merit in this contention.	Reasoning
Merely because the Income Tax Officer could have rectified the order, the Commissioner could not be precluded form the exercising the power conferred on him under Section 263 .	Reasoning
the power of rectification conferred on the Income Tax officer under Section 155 and the power of revision conferred on the Commissioner under Section 263 are distinct powers.	Reasoning
The pri nciple that one is a special provision and the other is a general provision has no application.	Reasoning
The revisional power conferred on the commissioner under Section 263 is of wide amplitude .	Reasoning
It enables the Commissioner to revise an order passed b y the Assessing Officer if he considers it to b erroneous and prejudice to the interests of the Revenue.	Reasoning
We find no reason to limit this power by reference to Section 155.	None
As regards his taking into consideration an event which had occurred subsequent to the passing of the order by the Income Tax Officers, it may be stated that in Explanation (b) in Section 263 there is an express provision wherein it is prescribed that record shall include and shall be deemed always to have include d all records relating to any proceeding under this act available at the time of examination by the commissioner.	None
The death of one of the two partners resulting in the dissolution of the assessee firm on account of such death took place prior to the passing of the order by the commissioner and it could, therefore, be taken into consideration by him for the purpose of exercising his powers under Section 263 of the Act.	Reasoning
For the reasons aforementioned, we do not find any merit in the appeals and the same are accordingly dismissed.	Decision
But in the circumstances there will be no order as to costs.	Decision
