 Sarkar, J. (On behalf of himself, B. P. Sinha C. J. and K. C. Das Gupta and J. R. Mudholkar JJ.)1.	None
The appellant is a city Municipality within the meaning of the Bombay District Municipal Act, 1901 and is governed by that Act.	Issue
It had by a resolution duly passed by it, made a rule under S. 60 of the Act selecting for type purpose of an octroi tax of 040 annas per Bengali maund, milk brought within its octroi limits for consumption, use or sale therein.	Issue
On November 29, 1954, the Government of Bombay had given its sanction to the rule under S. 61 of the Act.	Issue
The appellant Municipality thereafter published the rule and the sanction as required by S. 62 of the Act and the tax was accordingly imposed with effect from January 1, 1955.	Issue
On April 4, 1955 the Government of Bombay passed an order directing that the octroi tax shall not be leviable by the appellant Municipality.	Issue
This order has given rise to the present proceedings.2.	Issue
The appellant Municipality filed a petition in the High Court at Bombay under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution challenging the validity of the order.	Facts
This petition was dismissed by the High Court.	Facts
The appellant Municipality has now come up to this Court in appeal against the decision of the High Court.3.	Facts
The questions that arise in this case will be stated after a few of the sections of the Act have been referred to.	Facts
Chapter VII of the Act deals with municipal taxation.	Facts
We shall be concerned principally with Ss. 59, 60, 61 and 62 which are all contained in this chapter and deal with imposition of taxes by Municipalities.	Facts
It will be necessary also to consider S. 46.4.	Facts
Section 46 gives power to a Municipality to make rules for various purposes as specified in the several clauses contained in it.	Facts
Under cl.	Facts
(i) of this section, a Municipality has power to make rules for the purpose of prescribing, subject to the provisions of Chapter VII, the taxes to be levied.	Facts
Section 59 is the section on which the decision of this case will really turn and we, therefore, think it right to set out that portion of it which is relevant for our purpose.	Facts
S. 59.	Facts
(1) Subject to any general or special orders which the State Government may make in this behalf, any Municipality(a) after observing the preliminary procedure required by S. 60 and(b) with the sanction of the State Government in the case of City Municipalities and subject to such modifications or conditions as under S. 61 the State Government, in according such sanction, deems fit,may impose, for the purposes of this Act, any of the following taxes, that is to say,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	Facts
(iv) an octroi on animals or goods, or both, brought within the octroi limits for consumption, use or sale thereinSection 60 lays down the procedure to be observed by a Municipality preliminary to imposing a tax.	Facts
It requires that first a resolution stall be passed at a meeting of the Municipality selecting the tax and making rules for the purposes of cl.	Facts
(i) of S. 46 prescribing the tax.	Facts
Thereafter the resolution has to be published with a notice in a Specified form inviting the inhabitants of the Municipal area to submit within a month their objections, if any, to the tax.	Facts
After the objections have come in, they are to be considered by a Committee of the Municipality and unless on the report of the Committee the Municipality decides to abandon the tax, it had to submit the objections with its opinion thereon any modifications it desires to make and the rules prescribing the tax to the State Government.	Facts
Section 61 provides that on receipt of the rules and the other things mentioned in S. 60 from the Municipality, the Government may refuse to sanction the rules, or return them to the Municipality for further consideration or sanction them with or without modifications or subject to conditions prescribed Section 62 lays down that the rules as sanctioned by the Government shall be published by the Municipality and the tax shall, from the date which shall be specified in the notice publishing the rules, be imposed accordingly.	Facts
It is not in controversy that in the present case the procedure prescribed in the sections mentioned above had been complied with.5.	Facts
The Governments contention is that the order made by it was competent as it was an order which was authorised by S. 59, subject to which only a tax could be imposed by a Municipality.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellant Municipality does not dispute that it can impose a tax only under S. 59 but it contends that the general or special orders mentioned in the section subject to which it has the power to impose tax, are orders which were in existence before the rule prescribing the tax was framed and once a rule has been framed by it and the Government has accorded its sanction to that rule, the Government has no power to control the imposition of tax under it by any order made under S. 59.	Arguments of Petitioner
The question so raised is one of the constructions of S. 59.	None
But for such construction we have to refer also to the other sections earlier mentioned.6.	None
In our opinion, the Governments contention is well founded.	None
The Municipalitys power to tax arises only under S. 59.	Reasoning
Under that section, it has been given the power to impose a tax after following the procedure prescribed but subject always to the general or special orders of the Government.	Reasoning
The appellant Municipality can succeed in this appeal only if the word impose in S. 59 means the acquisition of the power to tax by following the procedure laid down in Ss. 60 to 62.	Reasoning
Its appeal must otherwise fail.	Reasoning
It seems to us that the word impose in S. 59 has not the meaning for which the appellant Municipality contends.7.	Reasoning
It would have been noticed that under S. 59 a Municipality may impose a tax only after it has framed a rule under S. 60 prescribing the tax to be levied and the Government has given its sanction to that rule under S. 61.	Reasoning
It is this imposition which is made by S. 59 subject to any general or special orders which the State Government may make in this behalf.	Reasoning
Therefore, it is the imposition after the making of the rule authorising the tax, that is subject to the Governments orders and not the making of the rule itself, which authorises the tax.	Reasoning
It is plain from S. 59 that the control over a Municipalitys power to tax imposed by the requirement of the Governments sanction of the rule prescribing the tax contained in S. 61, is not the same thing as the control contemplated by the general or special orders mentioned in S. 59, for both are mentioned in S.59.If	Reasoning
it were not so, it would have been unnecessary to provide for the general or special orders controlling the imposition the tax in S. 59.	Reasoning
This is the first reason why we think that the appellant Municipalitys contention is untenable.8.	Reasoning
The imposition contemplated by S. 59 is clearly not the passing of the resolutions under S. 60 selecting the tax and making the rule prescribing the tax to be levied in norms of S. 46 (i), for S. 59(1)(a) expressly makes the imposition something happening after S. 60 has been complied with.	Reasoning
This seems to us to be another reason for not accepting the appellant Municipalitys contention.9.	Reasoning
The third reason is to be found in S. 62.	Reasoning
As we have earlier stated, it provides that the tax shall be imposed from the date mentioned in the notice publishing the sanctioned rule.	Reasoning
The choice of this date lies with the Municipality and not with the Government.	Reasoning
The power to levy the tax is acquired by a Municipality when the rule prescribing the tax made by it is sanctioned by the Government.	Reasoning
The Municipality at its own choice thereafter fixes it date from which it will collect the tax.	Reasoning
Therefore, the word impose in S. 62 does not refer to the acquisition of power to levy a tax by making the rule but to the actual levy of the tax under the power so acquired.	Reasoning
It is of some significance it note that in S. 46 (i) the words used are make. . . .	Reasoning
rules. . . .	Reasoning
.	Reasoning
, prescribing . . . .	Reasoning
.	Reasoning
, the taxes to be levied.	Reasoning
What we wish to point out is that in connection with the making of the rules the Act uses the word levied in S. 46 (i) and in connection with an actual impost, the word imposed in S. 62.	Reasoning
We, therefore, think that it would be legitimate to construe the word impose in S. 59 in the sense in which it has clearly been used in a connected provision, that is, S. 62.Hence in our view, impose in S. 59 means the actual levy of the tax after authority to levy it has been acquired by rules duly made and sanctioned, and it is such imposition that is made subject to the general or special orders of the Government.	Reasoning
Therefore, the Government can at any time by any such order prohibit the imposition of the tax.10.	None
Mr. Sastri for the appellant said that the general or special orders in S. 59 refer to orders that can be made under S. 73, but the present order had admittedly not been made under that section.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 73, does not empower an order prohibiting the imposition of a tax altogether as the order in the present case does.	None
It only gives power to suspend the levy of the tax authorised till the objections to the tax which the Government required to be removed, had been removed.	Reasoning
Because S. 73 gives a power to suspend the tax, it is, in our opinion, no argument that the general or special orders in S. 59 must be understood as confined to such order, Section 73 cannot help in interpreting the words general or special orders in S. 59.	None
11.	None
A third objection to the validity of the order was that it was discriminatory.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was said that no other Municipality had been prohibited from collecting a similar tax which it had power under its rules to collect.	Arguments of Petitioner
Apart from the very interesting question raised by the learned Attorney General that the Municipality being a local authority, was a State, and was not therefore entitled to the benefit of Art.	None
14, as to which we think it unnecessary to express any opinion, we are on the facts satisfied that there is no discrimination.	None
The Government has now, it is not disputed, prohibited all Municipalities from levying any octroi tax on milk.	Reasoning
Furthermore, it has not been shown to us that all Municipalities stand on the same footing with regard to milk.12.	None
The last objection was that the order had been mala fide made.	Arguments of Petitioner
This grievance is completely without foundation.	None
The Government had earlier requested the appellant Municipality to drop the tax on the ground, among others, that milk was really being purchased for the Government and that the Government was not liable to be taxed by a Municipality.	Reasoning
It may be that this ground was not justified on the facts, but as to this we do not come to any finding.	Reasoning
It is clear to us that even if this stand taken by, the Government was not tenable, that it no reason for thinking that the order was made mala fide.	Reasoning
It was said that the Government had made this order to benefit respondent No. 2, a cooperative union, dealing in milk.	Reasoning
This is a bare allegation and is not supported by facts.	Reasoning
In any event, since similar orders have now been made in respect of all Municipalities within the State, no question of mala fides can possibly arise.13.	Reasoning
We think that the challenge to the order dated April 4, 1955 is without any foundation.	Reasoning
In our view, that order was perfectly legitimate and must be upheld.14.	Reasoning
We accordingly dismiss the appeal with costs.	Decision
Ayyangar, J.15.	None
I have had the advantage of perusing the judgment just delivered and I agree with the order passed.16.	None
The relevant facts and the statutory provisions which bear on the points arising in the appeal have all been set out by Sarkar, J, and do not require to be repeated.17.	None
There is no dispute that the levy of the duty by the municipality as and from January 1, 1955 was lawful because the requirements of Ss. 5962, were satisfied when the levy was made.	None
No general or special order of the State Government stood in the way of the Municipality making the particular levy and the sanction of the State Government under S. 59(1)(b) had been accorded to it, and the relevant rules had conformed to the procedural and other requirements of these sections.	None
The power of the municipality in the matter of the levy of the tax is, however, not absolute but is made subject apart from other provisions to which I shall advert, to such general and special orders as the State Government might pass by virtue of the opening words of S. 59 of the Act.18.	None
The argument strenuously pressed by Mr. Viswanatha Sastri was this The Government had, no doubt, a power to prescribe and control by general or special orders the right of a municipality to impose a tax.	Arguments of Petitioner
These general or special orders would again, no doubt, be subject to modification from time to time to suit the changing needs of particular areas or of particular interests which would be affected by the taxlevy but the exercise of the power of modification or this power to prescribe conditions and restrictions is exhausted when a municipality does, by conforming to the orders then in force, impose a levy which has come into force under S. 62.19.	None
I am unable to agree with this construction of the opening words of S. 59(1).	None
On its language there is nothing to warrant the doctrine that it gets exhausted by reason of municipality imposing a tax in conformity with an under as it stood at a particular date.	None
The limitation suggested must therefore, be deduced as a necessary implication either from the fasciculus of sections ending with S. 62 leading to the imposition of a levy, or from other provisions of the Act.20.	None
The other provision of the Act to which learned Counsel referred was S. 73 which reads If it shall at any time appear to the Provincial Government, on complaint made or otherwise, that any tax leviable by a Municipality, is unfair in its incidence, or that the levy thereof, of any part thereof, is obnoxious to the interest of the general public, it may require the said Municipality, within such period as it shall fix in this behalf, to take measures for removing any objection which appears to it to exist to the said tax, and if, within the period so fixed, such requirement shall not be carried into effect to the satisfaction of the Provincial Government, it may, by Notification in the Official Gazette, suspend the levy of such tax, or if such part thereof, until such time as the objection thereto shall be removed.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Provincial Government may at any time, by a like notification, rescind any such suspension.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is obvious that this section is of limited operation and confined to the subject it actually deals with.	None
It posits the continued exaction of the impost, but points to the removal of anomalies and hardships in the details of the levy or of its administration.	None
The existence of this provision would manifestly not suffice to negative the right of the Government to forbid the continued imposition of the tax altogether  such as has been done in the present case.	None
Section 73 cannot therefore be construed as negativing by implication the right claimed by the State Government under S. 59, for it refers to and comprehends a totally different subjectmatter.21.	None
Coming now to the construction of Ss. 5962 as themselves supporting the theory of the exhaustion of the power, the submission was this.	None
The general or special orders could only restrict the power of a municipality to impose a tax.	None
On the scheme of provisions contained in Ss. 5962 a tax was imposed only once, though when imposed and in operation the levy and collection of such a tax might be periodic and throughout the life of the imposition.	None
Hence there was no scope for the exercise of the power of the State Government to make any special or general order in relation to a tax after it has once been imposed because the power to prescribe conditions or restrictions by general or special order is with reference to the imposition of the tax.	None
I feel unable to accept this construction.	None
The whole foundation of the argument is based on a denial of the premise that a power to impose tax is a continuing power.	None
In my judgment the imposition of a tax is a continuing power in the sense that so long as it is in force, it points to the existence of and derives vitality from the power of the authority to impose it.	None
When the municipality levies the tax in the sense of quantifying it with reference to an ascertained person and thereby creating a statutory debt payable by the taxpayer, it is in reality exercising the power to impose the tax, for it is the continued existence of the imposition that furnishes the legal basis for the levy when made.	None
When the power to impose is withdrawn, the imposition falls to the ground.	None
That is the ratio of saving provisions which enable taxes to be levied and collected notwithstanding the deprivation of the right to impose taxes for the future.	None
In this view it is clear that there is no exhaustion of the State power under the opening words of S. 59(1).22.	None
In arriving at this construction I have also taken into consideration the scheme of the Act and the wide powers conferred on the State Government in the matter of control and supervision over the municipalitiespowers designed to ensure that, subject of course to express statutory provision, municipal administration is coordinate to secure the vital interests of the general public.23.	None
In this connection reference may be made to S. 74 of the Act which reads Whenever it appears to the Provincial Government that the balance of the municipal fund of any Municipality is insufficient for meeting the expenditure incurred under S. 175 or for the performance of any duties in respect of which they shall have been declared under S. 178 to have committed de fault, the Provincial Government may by notification require the Municipality to impose, within the Municipal district, any such tax specified in the notification as may be imposed under S. 59 if no such tax is at the time imposed therein, or to enhance any existing tax in such manner or to such extent as the Provincial Government considers fit, and the Municipality shall forthwith proceed to impose or enhance in accordance with the requisition such tax under the provision of this Chapter, as if a resolution of the Municipality had been passed for the purpose under S. 60	Arguments of Petitioner
Provided that(a) the Provincial Government shall take into consideration any objection which the Municipality or any inhabitant of the municipal district may make against the imposition or enhancement of such tax.(b)	None
it shall not be lawful for the Municipality to abandon or modify or to abolish such tax when imposed, and(c) the Provincial Government may at any time cancel or modify any requisition made by it under this section, and the levy of the tax or the enhancement, except as to arrears therefore accrued due, shall thereupon cease or be modified accordingly.24.	Arguments of Petitioner
Government are thus empowered both to direct the municipality to impose a tax when Government consider the same necessary in the interest of municipal finance and administration as also to direct the municipality to desist from continuing the imposition when the necessity ceases.	None
In cases where a tax is imposed by the municipality by virtue of the provisions in Ss. 5962, the municipality itself could revoke the tax if the rules so provide, for S. 47 of the Act enacts (1) Subject to the requirements of clause (a) of the proviso to S. 46 every Municipality may, except as otherwise provided in clause (b) of the proviso to S. 74, at any time for any sufficient reason, suspend, reduce or abolish any, existing tax by suspending, altering or rescinding any rule prescribing such tax under the provisions of clause (1) and of the first clause of the proviso to S. 46.2.	None
The provisions of Chapter VII relating to the imposition of taxes shall, so far as may be, apply to the suspension, reduction or abolition of any tax and to the suspension, alteration or rescission of any rule prescribing a tax.	None
But for the opening words of S. 59(1) there is no specific provision in the Act to enable Government to intervene in cases where the continued levy of a tax is contrary to public interest.	None
I do not consider that any such gap was intended and in my judgment the opening words in S. 59(1) are both apt and sufficient to clothe Government with power to direct by special order a municipality to desist from imposing a tax when satisfied that public interest so requires.25.	None
The points raised regarding discrimination and mala fides are without substance and for the reasons stated by Sarkar, J. I would reject them.26.	None
The appeal therefore fails and has to be dismissed with costs.	Decision
The Writ Petition which raises the same points as the appeal will also stand dismissed but without any order as to costs.27.	Decision
Appeal and application dismissed.	Decision
