 Dr. Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud, J. The appeal The issue Captive power plant assessment to electricity duty Industrial Policy 2012 Exemption from Electricity Duty Before the High Court Submissions of Counsel Analysis H.1 A State in breach of policy commitments H.2 Building on Motilal Padampat H.3 Promissory estoppel  origins and evolution H.4 From estoppel to expectations H.5 Indian Law and the doctrine of legitimate expectations H.6 Expectations breached by the State of Jharkhand H.7	None
The technical defences to the claim Conclusion Leave granted.	None
The appeal This appeal arises from a judgment of the High Court of Jharkhand.	Issue
While allowing a petition instituted by the respondents under Article 226 of the Constitution, the Division Bench struck down the last paragraph of a notification dated 8 January 2015 issued by the State government in its Department of Commercial Taxes, giving prospective effect to the rebate deduction from electricity duty offered under the Jharkhand Industrial Policy, 2012( Industrial Policy 2012) directed that the notification shall be deemed to be in effect from 1 April 2011, when the Industrial Policy 2012 was enforced with retrospective effect and upheld the claim of the respondent that it was entitled to a rebate deduction from electricity duty in terms of the representation held out in the Industrial Policy 2012, and that the denial of the exemption by the State government for FYs 201112, 201213 and 201314 was contrary to the doctrine of promissory estoppel.	Issue
The State is in appeal to challenge the judgment dated 11 December 2019.	Issue
The issue The issue for determination is whether the respondent is entitled to claim a rebate or deduction of 50 per cent of the amount assessed towards electricity duty for FYs 201112, 201213 and 201314.	Issue
The respondent claims its entitlement on the basis of the Industrial Policy 2012 (notified by the appellant on 16 June 2012) and a statutory notification dated 8 January 2015 issued under Section 9 of the Bihar Electricity Duty Act 1948(the Bihar Act 1948).	Issue
The Bihar Act 1948 was adopted with effect from 15 November 2000 for the State of Jharkhand under the provisions of the Bihar Reorganization Act 2000.	Issue
Captive power plant assessment to electricity duty	None
The respondent was granted a certificate of commencement of commercial production on 31 May 2013.	Facts
The certificate records that the integrated manufacturing unit of Sponge Iron and Mild Steel Billets, together with a captive thermal plant of 20 MW capacity set up by the respondent commenced commercial production on 17 August 2011.	Facts
A certificate of registration was granted to the respondent on 22 November 2011 under Rule 4 of the Bihar (Jharkhand) Electricity Duty Rules 1949(the	Facts
Bihar Rules 1949), according to which it was liable to pay duty for distribution and or consumption of the energy from 1 October 2011.	Facts
On the basis of the returns submitted by the respondent in FormIll, read with Rule 9 of the Bihar Rules 1949, assessment orders were passed by the assessing officer for FY 201112 on 9 December 2014, for FY 201213 on 18 December 2015 and for FY 201314 on 16 December 2016.	Facts
Industrial Policy 2012	None
The Industrial Policy 2012 was notified by the State government on 16 June 2012.	Facts
Some of the salient features of the Industrial Policy 2012 need to be visited Clause 32.10 provided an exemption from the payment of 50 per cent of the electricity duty for a period of five years, for captive power plants established for selfconsumption or captive use 32.10 Incentive for captive power plant New or existing industrial units setting up captive power plant shall be exempted from the payment of 50 of electricity duty for a period of five years for self  consumption or captive use (i.e. in respect of power being used by the plant) from the date of its commissioning.	Facts
Clause 35.7(b) envisaged that the entitlement would ensue from the financial year following the Date of Production (DoP) 35.7(b)	Facts
Industrial units will be entitled for reimbursement payment of subsidy incentives under different categories only from the next financial year of DoP. Clause 38(b) stipulated that notifications enforcing the terms of the industrial policy would be issued within a period of one month by the Departments of the State government Monitoring and Review All concerned departments and organizations would issue necessary follow up notifications within a month to give effect to the provisions of this Policy.	None
The implementation of this policy will be duly monitored by Government at the level of Chief Secretary at least once in a quarter, so that the State Government may carry out a mid  term review of this Policy.	Facts
Exemption from Electricity Duty Though the Industrial Policy 2012 which was notified on 16 June 2012 envisaged that notifications by the Departments of the State government would be issued within one month, there was a failure to comply with the time schedule.	None
In order to give effect to the exemption from electricity duty, a notification under Section 9 of the Bihar Act 1948 was necessary.	Facts
Section 9 recognizes the power of the State government to grant exemptions.	Facts
Rule 6 of the Bihar Rules 1949 casts a duty on every assessee to pay the duty which falls due within two calendar months of the month to which it relates.	Facts
Rule 9 requires the submission of a return in FormIll within a period of two calendar months from the expiry of the month to which the return relates.	Facts
Since an exemption notification was not issued by the State of Jharkhand under Section 9, a writ petition was filed under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Jharkhand by a company by the name of Usha Martin Limited(WP (T) No. 6008 of 2014, decided on 3/4 February 2015.).	Facts
Eventually, the State government issued an exemption notification on 8 January 2015 but made it effective from the date on which it was issued.	Facts
The exemption notification is extracted below S.0.67 dated 8th January, 2015  	Facts
In the light of Para 32.10 of Jharkhand Industrial Policy, 2012 and in exercise of the powers conferred by the Section 9 of the adopted Bihar Electricity Duty Act, 1948, the Governor of Jharkhand is pleased to exempt new or existing industrial units setting up captive power plant for selfconsumption or captive use (in respect of power being used by the plant) from the payment of 50 of Electricity Duty from the date of the commissioning of the power plant.	Facts
This notification shall be effective from the date of issue and shall remain effective till the period mentioned in the relevant provisions of the Jharkhand Industrial Policy, 2012.	Facts
The Industrial Policy 2012 announced an incentive in the form of a rebate or deduction on electricity duty for a period of five years from the commencement of production.	Facts
If a notification under Section 9 had been issued by the State government within a month, in terms of the representation held out by the Industrial Policy 2012, the respondent would have had the benefit of almost the entire period of exemption contemplated by the policy.	Facts
But since the exemption notification dated 8 January 2015 was made prospective, the respondent (and other similar units) would receive the benefit of the exemption from electricity duty for a much lesser period.	Facts
Faced with this situation, the respondent instituted writ proceedings before the High Court of Jharkhand in August 2019.	Facts
Before the High Court Placing reliance on the doctrine of promissory estoppel, the respondent sought, in its submissions before the High Court, one of two reliefs or directions.	Facts
First, the respondent claimed that the clause in the notification making it prospective should be effaced since it was contrary to the representation that was held out by the Industrial Policy 2012.	Facts
Alternately, the respondent sought a direction that it would be entitled to an exemption from electricity duty for a period of five years from the date of the issuance of the notification (the period of five years being the envisaged period under the Industrial Policy 2012).	Facts
The High Court accepted the first of the two courses of action noted above, placing reliance on the decisions of this Court in State of Bihar vs. Kalyanpur Cement Limited, (2010) 3 SCC 274.	Facts
(Kalyanpur Cement Ltd.) and Manuelsons Hotels Private Limited vs. State of Kerala, (2016) 6 SCC 766.	Facts
(Manuelsons Hotels Pvt. Ltd.).	Facts
These decisions are premised on the doctrine of promissory estoppel enunciated in Motilal Padampat Sagar Mills Co. Ltd. vs. State of UP, (1979) 2 SCC 409.	Facts
(Motilal Padampat).	Facts
The High Court held that a promise was made by the State government to give the benefit of an exemption of 50 per cent in electricity duty for a period of five years, for selfconsumption or captive use, to all new and existing industrial units setting up captive power plants in the State of Jharkhand.	Facts
The High Court observed that it was not the case of the State government that it did not intend to give the benefit to these industrial units since, as a matter of fact, it had issued a notification, though belatedly, on 8 January 2015.	Facts
Finding fault with the delay on the part of the government in issuing an exemption notification, the High Court held that there was no specific reason for the delay and that but for the lethargic approach of the state authorities the exemption should have been issued within a month of the issuance of the Industrial Policy 2012.	Facts
The effect of the belated notification was to deny industrial units of the benefit of the promise held out by the State government.	Facts
The High Court noted that the benefit was to be given with effect from FY 201112 for a period of five years which ended in FY 201516.	Facts
Since the exemption notification was issued on 8 January 2015, the unit of the respondent and similarly placed units would receive the benefit for only one or two years instead of promised five years, as the Industrial Policy 2012 envisaged.	Facts
In this backdrop, the conclusion of the High Court was that the failure of the State to issue an exemption notification within time should not stand in the way of the industrial units getting the benefit which was promised and its denial of such benefit for FYs 201112, 201213 and 201314 was contrary to the doctrine of promissory estoppel.	Facts
The issuance of an exemption notification being a ministerial act, the High Court held that it should not stand in the way of industrial units obtaining relief under the doctrine as a result of the unconscionable delay caused by the State government.	Facts
It was on this rationale that the High Court concluded that the notification dated 8 January 2015 issued by the Commercial Tax Department of the State government ought not to be construed with prospective effect and the clause making it prospective would have to be struck down.	Facts
The notification was deemed to be in effect from the date of the Industrial Policy 2012 (1 April 2011).	Facts
The electricity duty deposited for FYs 201112, 201213 and 201314 was directed to be adjusted against the future liability of the respondent towards electricity duty.	Facts
Since the amount has already been deposited no refund, but an adjustment of future payments was directed.	Facts
The State is in appeal.	Facts
Submissions of Counsel Mr Tapesh Kumar Singh, Additional Advocate General appearing for the State of Jharkhand submits that In terms of the rebate concession admissible under the Industrial Policy 2012, the respondent was required by Column 6(iv) of FormIll to raise a claim for exemption from the payment of electricity duty (ii) In all the three returns which were furnished by the respondent, a rebate deduction was sought only towards auxiliary consumption, which was accepted and allowed by the assessing officer (iii) In the absence of a claim for rebate deduction sought before the assessing officer, the assessing officer could not have granted a concession to the respondent (iv) The three assessment orders demonstrate that the respondent paid electricity duty without protest or demur, and the computation made by the assessing officer of the payable amount was accepted (v) The three returns filed by the respondent for the corresponding assessment years were belated and an amount of Rs 2000/ was levied as penalty (vi)	Arguments of Petitioner
The submission that the notification under Section 9 of the Bihar Act 1948 was belatedly issued on 8 January 2015 is not available to the respondent since two of the three assessment orders were issued eleven months and twentythree months after the issuance of the notification.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, in the assessment orders of FYs 201213 and 201314, no prejudice has been caused to the respondent by the belated issuance of the notification (vii) For FY 201112, it has been conceded during the course of the hearing by the respondent that upon a correct construction of the relevant terms of the Industrial Policy 2012, it is not entitled in law to claim a rebate deduction or adjustment in view of Clause 35.7(b) (viii) The relief which has been granted by the High Court to another similarly situated writ petitioner on 4 February 2015 shall operate erga omnes (ix) In 2019, the respondent instituted three writ petitions for the corresponding three assessment years  FYs 2011 12, 201213 and 201314 with a view to overcome the period of limitation under the general law and these have erroneously been allowed by the common judgment and order of the High Court (x) The law laid down in the judgments of the Constitution Bench in State of Madhya Pradesh vs. Bhailal Bhai, AIR 1964 SC 1006 .	Arguments of Petitioner
(Bhailal Bhai) and Suganmal vs. State of Madhya Pradesh, AIR 1965 SC 1740 .	Arguments of Petitioner
(Suganmal) continues to hold the field (xi)	Arguments of Petitioner
The above judgments hold that any claim for refund could be made only within the period of limitation prescribed under the general law for the filing of suits for the recovery of amounts due and the High Court ought not to entertain a petition under Article 226 in the exercise of its extraordinary writ jurisdiction (xii)	Arguments of Petitioner
In the absence of any pleading before the High Court, there is a presumption in law against the respondent that the amount claimed as rebate deduction from electricity duty has already been passed on to its customers.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, the adjustment which has been granted by the High Court would result in unjust enrichment to the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in Mafatlal Industries Ltd. vs. Union of India, (1997) 5 SCC 536.	Arguments of Petitioner
(Mafatlal Industries) (xiii)	Arguments of Petitioner
An alternative and efficacious statutory remedy of an appeal under Section 9A of the Bihar Act 1948 was available to the respondent against the orders of assessment, and hence the High Court should have refused to allow recourse to the extraordinary writ jurisdiction and (xiv)	Arguments of Petitioner
Since the unit of the respondent commenced commercial production on 17 August 2011, whereas the Industrial Policy is of 2012, the doctrine of promissory estoppel cannot be extended backwards in favour of the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, opposing these submissions on behalf of the respondent and in support of the judgment of the High Court, Mr. Devashish Bharuka, learned Counsel urged the following submissions The act of the State government in making the exemption notification prospective in effect from 8 January 2015 is in derogation to the promise held out by the State in its Industrial Policy 2012.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court in placing reliance on the doctrine of promissory estoppel has correctly relied upon the decisions of this Court in Motilal Padampat (supra), Kalyanpur Cement Ltd (supra) and Manuelsons Hotels Pvt Ltd. (supra)	Arguments of Respondent
As regards the claim of exemption by the first respondent The benefit of a rebate deduction could not have been claimed in the returns for FYs 201112, 201213 and 201314.	Arguments of Respondent
The exemption notification was issued only on 8 January 2015, and that too with prospective effect The first respondent has, as a matter of fact, received a rebate deduction only for the period 8 January 2015 to 31 March 2015 and for FY 201516 As regards the submission that there has been a delay in instituting the writ petitions before the High Court under Article 226 The issue of delay has not been raised by the State government either before the High Court or in the Special Leave Petition Once the High Court entertained the writ petition on merits, this Court ought not to interfere on the ground of delay alone, particularly when the judgment of the High Court is legally sustainable Delay by itself in filing a Writ Petition may not defeat the claim unless the position of the opposite party has been so altered that it cannot be retracted on account of a lapse of time or inaction of the writ petitioner.	None
The State has neither pleaded nor argued any change in its position This is a case where the opposite party has not been put through any hardship by reason of the delay in approaching the High Court and The decisions in Bhailal Bhai (supra) and Suganmal (supra) are distinguishable as they relate to a writ petition seeking refund of illegally collected tax.	None
On the above grounds, it has been submitted that the respondent is entitled to the benefit of a rebate for a period of five years as held out in clause 32.10 of the Industrial Policy 2012.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent has submitted that the period of five years may commence from 17 August 2011 (the date of commercial production) or from FY 201213 (in accord with clause 35.7(b) of Industrial Policy 2012) or from 8 January 2015 (the date of the notification).	Arguments of Respondent
Analysis The rival submissions will now be considered.	None
I A State in breach of policy commitments The Industrial Policy 2012 refers to the earlier Industrial Policy, which was formulated in 2001 after the formation of the State of Jharkhand.	None
The policy notes that considerable progress in industrialization has been achieved during the policy period.	None
Yet, according to Clause 1.8, there is a need to boost economic activities to sustain the current level of growth and achieve even better pace of development.	None
Clause 1.9 takes notice of the fact that there has been large scale change in (the) industrialization environment (sic) due to economic liberalization, privatization and globalization.	None
The policy document states in Clause 1.12 that it aims at creating (an) industryfriendly environment for maximizing investment 1.12.	None
The present policy aims at creating industryfriendly environment for maximizing investment especially in mineral and natural resource based industries, MSMEs, infrastructure development and rehabilitation of viable sick units.	None
The objective here is to maximize the value addition to states natural resources by setting up industries across the state, generating revenue and creating employment.	None
Clause 1.13 stipulates that the policy was drafted after intensive interaction with stakeholders and to accommodate their views.	None
It was expected that the policy would, upon implementation, facilitate industrialization of the State, generate employment and add to its overall growth.	None
As an integral component of the policy, Clause 32.10 envisages the grant of an exemption from the payment of 50 per cent of the electricity duty for a period of five years both for new and existing industrial units setting up captive power plants for selfconsumption or captive use The period of five years was to be reckoned from the date of the commissioning of the plant.	Facts
Under Clause 35.7(b), the entitlement would ensue from the financial year following the date of production.	Decision
The State government was cognizant of the need to implement the policy immediately to secure the benefit to eligible units over the entire term of five years.	None
Recognizing this need, Clause 38(b) envisaged that notifications by its diverse departments to enforce the terms of the policy would be issued within a period of one month.	None
The alacrity expected by the Industrial Policy 2012 of the State of Jharkhand did not find a resonance in its administrative apparatus.	Reasoning
The High Court has justifiably referred to this as a case of bureaucratic lethargy.	Reasoning
As a matter of first principle, there can be no gainsaying the fact that when a statute, such as the Bihar Act 1948, empowers the state to grant an exemption from its provisions, the State has the discretion to determine the date from which and the period over which the exemption will operate.	Reasoning
An individual or entity cannot compel the State to issue a notification providing for an exemption or to insist upon the terms on which the government does so.	Reasoning
Whether an exemption should be issued and if so, the terms for the exemption, have to be determined by the State.	Reasoning
But this case does not rest on that principle nor did the claim of the respondent require the High Court to make a departure from it.	Reasoning
The Industrial Policy 2012 contained a representation that a rebate deduction would be granted.	Reasoning
It held out a representation that a notification would be issued in a month.	Reasoning
These were solemn commitments made by the State of Jharkhand.	Reasoning
What remained was their implementation by issuing a notification, which was to be done within one month.	Reasoning
The State government evidently intended to implement and act in pursuance of its commitment.	Reasoning
For, ultimately, it did issue a notification.	Reasoning
But it did so on 8 January 2015  after a period of a month envisaged under the Industrial Policy 2012 had dragged on for nearly three years.	Reasoning
It is time for the State government to take notice of the observations of the High Court in regard to administrative lethargy.	Reasoning
If the object of formulating the industrial policy is to encourage investment, employment and growth, the administrative lethargy of the State apparatus is clearly a factor which will discourage entrepreneurship.	Reasoning
The policy document held out a solemn representation.	Reasoning
It contemplated the grant of a rebate deduction from the payment of electricity duty not only to new units but to existing units as well who had or would set up captive power plants.	Reasoning
The State, in the present case, held out inter alia a solemn representation in terms of Clauses 32.10 and 35.7(b) of the entitlement of the exemption for a period of five years from the date of production.	Reasoning
Besides this, it also contemplated in Clause 38(b) that a followup exemption notification would be issued within one month.	Reasoning
That period of one month stretched on interminably with the result that the purpose and object of granting the exemption would virtually stand defeated.	Reasoning
The net result was that when belatedly, the State government issued a notification under Section 9 of Bihar Act 1948 on 8 January 2015, it was prospective.	Reasoning
As a consequence, by the time that the exemption notification was issued, a large part of the term for which the exemption was to operate in terms of the Industrial Policy 2012 had come to an end.	Reasoning
The State government was evidently inclined to grant the exemption.	Reasoning
This is not a case where due to an overarching requirement of public interest, the State government decided to override the representation which was contained in the Industrial Policy 2012.	Reasoning
To the contrary, it sought to implement the representation albeit in fits and starts.	Reasoning
Firstly, there was a delay of three years in the issuance of the notification.	Reasoning
Secondly, by making the notification prospective, it deprived units such as the respondent of the full benefit of the exemption which was originally envisaged in terms of the Industrial Policy 2012.	Reasoning
H.2 Building on Motilal Padampat In this backdrop, the High Court has, with justification, adverted to two decisions of this Court.	None
In Kalyanpur Cement (supra), an industrial policy had been notified in 1995 in the State of Bihar.	Reasoning
The policy contained a provision for monitoring and reviewing and envisaged that all departments and organizations would issue a followup notification to give effect to the policy within one month.	Reasoning
This was similar to clause 38(b) of the policy in the present case.	Reasoning
No notification was issued by the State of Bihar to give effect to the industrial policy, which lapsed on 31 August 2000.	Reasoning
The claim to sales tax exemption by the unit was rejected by the State government on the ground that it had decided not to grant an incentive to a sick industrial unit.	Reasoning
A followup notification was issued during the pendency of the case before this Court.	Reasoning
In the backdrop of these facts, this Court speaking through Justice S. S. Nijjar, observed Even if we are to accept the submissionsthat the provisions contained in Clause 24 were mandatory, the time of one month for issuing the notification could only have been extended for a reasonable period.	Reasoning
It is inconceivable that it could have taken the Government three years to issue the followup notification.	Reasoning
We are of the considered opinion that failure of the appellants to issue the necessary notification within a reasonable period of the enforcement of the Industrial Policy, 1995 has rendered the decisions dated 612001 and 532001 wholly arbitrary.	Reasoning
The appellant cannot be permitted to rely on its own lapses in implementing its Policy to defeat the just and valid claim of the Company.	Reasoning
For the same reason we are unable to accept the submissions of the learned Senior Counsel for the appellant that no relief can be granted to the Company as the Policy has lapsed on 3182000.	Reasoning
Accepting such a submission would be to put a premium and accord a justification to the wholly arbitrary action of the appellant, in not issuing the notification in accordance with the provisions contained in Clause 24 of the Industrial Policy, 1995.	Reasoning
In the decision in Manuelsons Hotels Private Limited vs. State of Kerala (supra), speaking through Justice Rohinton F Nariman, the Court had to construe a notification dated 11 July 1986 of the Government of Kerala enabling those engaged in tourism promotional activities to become automatically eligible for concessions incentives as provided to the industrial sector from time to time.	Reasoning
An amendment to the Kerala Building Tax Act 1975 was made with effect from 6 November 1990 giving an exemption as promised in 1986 and the amendment was deleted with effect from 1 March 1993.	Reasoning
Relying on the earlier decision of this Court inter alia in Motilal Padampat (supra), this Court held 3 The nonexercise of such discretionary power is clearly vitiated on account of the application of the doctrine of promissory estoppel in terms of this Courts judgments in Motilal Padampat Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills Co. Ltd. v. State of U.P., (1979) 2 SCC 409 1979 SCC (Tax) 144 (1979) 2	Reasoning
SCR 641 and Nestle State of Punjab v. Nestle India Ltd., (2004) 6 SCC 465 .	Reasoning
This is for the reason that nonexercise of such power is itself an arbitrary act which is vitiated by nonapplication of mind to relevant facts, namely, the fact that a G.O. dated 1171986 specifically provided for exemption from building tax if hotels were to be set up in the State of Kerala pursuant to the representation made in the said G.O. True, no mandamus could issue to the legislature to amend the Kerala Building Tax Act, 1975, for that would necessarily involve the judiciary in transgressing into a forbidden field under the constitutional scheme of separation of powers.	Reasoning
However, on facts, we find that Section 3A was, in fact, enacted by the Kerala Legislature by suitably amending the Kerala Building Tax Act, 1975 on 6111990 in order to give effect to the representation made by the G.O. dated 1171986.	Reasoning
We find that the said provision continued on the statute book and was deleted only with effect from 131993.	Reasoning
This would make it clear that from 6111990 to 131993, the power to grant exemption from building tax was statutorily conferred by Section 3A on the Government.	Reasoning
And we have seen that the Statement of Objects and Reasons for introducing Section 3A expressly states that the said section was introduced in order to fulfil one of the promises contained in the G.O. dated 1171986.	Reasoning
We find that the appellants, having relied on the said G.O. dated 1171986, had, in fact, constructed a hotel building by 1991.	Reasoning
It is clear, therefore, that the nonissuance of a notification under Section 3A was an arbitrary act of the Government which must be remedied by application of the doctrine of promissory estoppel, as has been held by us hereinabove.	Reasoning
The ministerial act of nonissue of the notification cannot possibly stand in the way of the appellants getting relief under the said doctrine for it would be unconscionable on the part of the Government to get away without fulfilling its promise.	Reasoning
H.3 Promissory estoppel  origins and evolution Before the High Court, the State of Jharkhand sought to sustain its action on the ground that though the followup notification under Section 9 was issued on 8 January 2015, no outer limit for the issuance of a notification was prescribed and there was no vested right on the part of the respondent to get the notification implemented from an earlier date or to obtain the benefit of the policy until it was implemented by a followup notification.	Reasoning
The decision in Kalyanpur Cement (supra) was sought to be distinguished on the ground that in that case no followup notification had been issued at all until the policy lapsed.	Reasoning
In sum and substance, the objection was that the writ petitioner  the respondent here  had no vested right to claim that a followup notification should be issued and that the doctrine of promissory estoppel would not, in the facts, apply.	Reasoning
In order to analyze the contentions relating to the doctrine of promissory estoppel in the present case, it is necessary to discuss the origin of the doctrine and the evolution of its application.	None
The common law recognizes various kinds of equitable estoppel, one of which is promissory estoppel.	None
In Crabb vs. Arun DC, 1976 1 Ch 179 (Court of Appeal)	None
Lord Denning, speaking for the Court of Appeal, traced the genesis of promissory estoppel in equity, and observed The basis of this proprietary estoppel  as indeed of promissory estoppel  is the interposition of equity.	None
Equity comes in, true to form, to mitigate the rigours of strict law.	None
The early cases did not speak of it as estoppel.	None
They spoke of it as raising an equity If I may expand that, Lord Cairns said It is the first principle upon which all Courts of Equity proceed, that it will prevent a person from insisting on his legal rights  whether arising under a contract or on his title deed, or by statute  when it would be inequitable for him to do so having regard to the dealings which have taken place between the parties.	None
The requirements of the doctrine of promissory estoppel have also been formulated in Chitty on Contracts(Hugh Beale, Chitty on Contracts (32nd edn., Sweet Maxwell 2017).)	None
(Chitty) 4.086.	None
For the equitable doctrine to operate there must be a legal relationship giving rise to rights and duties between the parties a promise or a representation by one party that he will not enforce against the other his strict legal rights arising out of that relationship an intention on the part of the former party that the latter will rely on the representation and such reliance by the latter party.	None
Even if these requirements are satisfied, the operation of the doctrine may be excluded if it is, nevertheless, not inequitable for the first party to go back on his promise.	None
The doctrine most commonly applies to promises not to enforce contractual rights, but it also extends to certain other relationships.	None
4.088The doctrine can also apply where the relationship giving rise to rights and correlative duties is noncontractual e.g. to prevent the enforcement of a liability imposed by statute on a company director for signing a bill of exchange on which the companys name is not correctly given or to prevent a man from ejecting a woman, with whom he has been cohabitating, from the family home.	None
Chitty (supra) clarifies that the doctrine of promissory estoppel may be enforced even in the absence of a legal relationship.	None
However, it is argued that this would be an incorrect application of the doctrine since it gives rise to new rights between the parties, when the intent of the doctrine is to restrict the enforcement of previously existing rights 4.089.	None
It has, indeed, been suggested that the doctrine can apply where, before the making of the promise or representation, there is no legal relationship giving rise to rights and duties between the parties, or where there is only a putative contract between them e.g. where the promisee is induced to believe that a contract into which he had undoubtedly entered was between him and the promisor, when in fact it was between the promisee and another person.	None
But it is submitted that these suggestions mistake the nature of the doctrine, which is to restrict the enforcement by the promisor of previously existing rights against the promisee.	None
Such rights can arise only out of a legal relationship existing between these parties before the making of the promise or representation.	None
To apply doctrine where there was no such relationship would contravene the rule (to be discussed in para.	None
4099 below) that the doctrine creates no new rights.	None
Generally speaking under English Law, judicial decisions have in the past postulated that the doctrine of promissory estoppel cannot be used as a sword, to give rise to a cause of action for the enforcement of a promise lacking any consideration.	None
Its use in those decisions has been limited as a shield, where the promisor is estopped from claiming enforcement of its strict legal rights, when a representation by words or conduct has been made to suspend such rights.	None
In Combe vs. Combe, 1951 2 K.B. 215.	None
(Combe), the Court of Appeal held that consideration is an essential element of the cause of action	None
It promissory estoppel may be part of a cause of action, but not a cause of action itself.	None
The principle promissory estoppel never stands alone as giving a cause of action in itself, it can never do away with the necessity of consideration when that is an essential part of the cause of action.	None
The doctrine of consideration is too firmly fixed to be overthrown by a sidewind.	None
Even within English Law, the application of the rule laid down in Combe (supra) has been noticed to be inconsistent(Wyvern Development, Re, 1974 1	None
W.L.R. 1097 cited in Susan M. Morgan, A Comparative Analysis of the Doctrine of Promissory Estoppel in Australia, Great Britain and the United States, (1985) 15 Melbourne University Law Review 134, 139141.).	None
The scope of the rule has also been doubted on the ground that it has been widely framed(In Tungsten Electric Co Ltd. vs. Tool Metal Manufacturing Co. Ltd., 1955 1 W.L.R. 761, Lord Simonds states, I do not wish to lend the authority of this House to the statement of the principle which is to be found in Combe v. Combe and may well be far too widely stated.).	None
Hence, in the absence of a definitive pronouncement by the House of Lords holding that promissory estoppel can be a cause of action, a difficulty was expressed in stating with certainty that English Law has evolved from the traditional approach of treating promissory estoppel as a shield instead of a sword(In Baird Textiles Holdings Ltd. vs. Marks and Spencer Plc., 2002 1	None
All ER (Comm) 737, Court of Appeal stated that there is no real prospect of the claim estoppel succeeding unless and until law is developed, or corrected, by the House of Lords.).	None
By contrast, the law in the United States(American Law Institute, Restatement of the Law (2d), Contracts (1981), para 90.)	None
and Australia(Waltons Stores (Interstate) Ltd vs. Maher, (1988) 164	None
CLR 387.) is less restrictive in this regard.	None
India, as we shall explore shortly, adopted a more expansive statement of the doctrine.	None
Comparative law enables countries which apply a doctrine from across international frontiers to have the benefit of hindsight.	None
This Court has given an expansive interpretation to the doctrine of promissory estoppel in order to remedy the injustice being done to a party who has relied on a promise.	None
In Motilal Padampat (supra), this Court viewed promissory estoppel as a principle in equity, which was not hampered by the doctrine of consideration as was the case under English Law.	None
This Court, speaking through Justice P N Bhagwati (as he was then), held thus 12having regard to the general opprobrium to which the doctrine of consideration has been subjected by eminent jurists, we need not be unduly anxious to project this doctrine against assault or erosion nor allow it to dwarf or stultify the full development of the equity of promissory estoppel or inhibit or curtail its operational efficacy as a justice device for preventing injusticeWe do not see any valid reason why promissory estoppel should not be allowed to found a cause of action where, in order to satisfy the equity, it is necessary to do so.	None
H.4 From estoppel to expectations 32 Under English Law, the doctrine of promissory estoppel has developed parallel to the doctrine of legitimate expectations.	None
The doctrine of legitimate expectations is founded on the principles of fairness in government dealings.	None
It comes into play if a public body leads an individual to believe that they will be a recipient of a substantive benefit.	None
The doctrine of substantive legitimate expectation has been explained in R vs. North and East Devon Health Authority, ex p Coughlan, 2001 QB 213.	None
in the following terms 55	None
But what was their legitimate expectation?	None
Where there is a dispute as to this, the dispute has to be determined by the court, as happened in In re Findlay.	None
This can involve a detailed examination of the precise terms of the promise or representation made, the circumstances in which the promise was made and the nature of the statutory or other discretion.	None
56 .Where	None
the court considers that a lawful promise or practice has induced a legitimate expectation of a benefit which is substantive, not simply procedural, authority now establishes that here too the court will in a proper case decide whether to frustrate the expectation is so unfair that to take a new and different course will amount to an abuse of power.	None
Here, once the legitimacy of the expectation is established, the court will have the task of weighing the requirements of fairness against any overriding interest relied upon for the change of policy.	None
(emphasis supplied) Under English Law, the doctrine of legitimate expectation initially developed in the context of public law as an analogy to the doctrine of promissory estoppel found in private law.	None
However, since then, English Law has distinguished between the doctrines of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation as distinct remedies under private law and public law, respectively.	None
De Smiths Judicial Review(Harry Woolf and others, De Smiths Judicial Review (8th edn, Thomson Reuters 2018).) notes the contrast between the public law approach of the doctrine of legitimate expectation and the private law approach of the doctrine of promissory estoppel despite dicta to the contrary Rootkin v Kent CC, (1981) 1 WLR 1186 (CA) R v Jockey Club Ex p RAM Racecourses Ltd, 1993 AC 380 (HL) R v IRC Ex p Camacq Corp, (1990) 1 WLR 191 (CA), it is not normally necessary for a person to have changed his position or to have acted to his detriment in order to qualify as the holder of a legitimate expectation R v Ministry for Agriculture, Fisheries and Foods Ex p Hamble Fisheries (Offshore) Ltd, (1995)	None
2 All ER 714 (QB).	None
. .	None
Private law analogies from the field of estoppel are, we have seen, of limited relevance where a public law principle requires public officials to honour their undertakings and respect legal certainty, irrespective of whether the loss has been incurred by the individual concerned Simon Atrill, The End of Estoppel in Public Law?	Reasoning
(2003) 62 Cambridge Law Journal 3.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
Another difference between the doctrines of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation under English Law is that the latter can constitute a cause of action(Rebecca Williams, The Multiple Doctrines of Legitimate Expectations, (2016) 132(Oct)	None
Law Quarterly Review 639, 645.).	None
The scope of the doctrine of legitimate expectation is wider than promissory estoppel because it not only takes into consideration a promise made by a public body but also official practice, as well.	None
Further, under the doctrine of promissory estoppel, there may be a requirement to show a detriment suffered by a party due to the reliance placed on the promise.	None
Although typically it is sufficient to show that the promisee has altered its position by placing reliance on the promise, the fact that no prejudice has been caused to the promisee may be relevant to hold that it would not be inequitable for the promisor to go back on their promise.(Supra note 19 at para 4095.)	None
However, no such requirement is present under the doctrine of legitimate expectation.	None
In Regina (Bibi) vs. Newham London Borough Council, 2002 1	None
W.L.R. 237.	None
the Court of Appeal held 55 The present case is one of reliance without concrete detriment.	None
We use this phrase because there is moral detriment, which should not be dismissed lightly, in the prolonged disappointment which has ensued and potential detriment in the deflection of the possibility, for a refugee family, of seeking at the start to settle somewhere in the United Kingdom where secure housing was less hard to come by.	None
In our view these things matter in public law, even though they might not found an estoppel or actionable misrepresentation in private law, because they go to fairness and through fairness to possible abuse of power.	None
To disregard the legitimate expectation because no concrete detriment can be shown would be to place the weakest in society at a particular disadvantage.	None
It would mean that those who have a choice and the means to exercise it in reliance on some official practice or promise would gain a legal toehold inaccessible to those who, lacking any means of escape, are compelled simply to place their trust in what has been represented to them.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
Consequently, while the basis of the doctrine of promissory estoppel in private law is a promise made between two parties, the basis of the doctrine of legitimate expectation in public law is premised on the principles of fairness and nonarbitrariness surrounding the conduct of public authorities.	None
This is not to suggest that the doctrine of promissory estoppel has no application in circumstances when a State entity has entered into a private contract with another private party.	None
Rather, in English law, it is inapplicable in circumstances when the State has made representation to a private party, in furtherance of its public functions(Nicholas Bamforth, Legitimate Expectation and Estoppel (1998)	None
3 Jud Rev 196.).	None
H.5 Indian Law and the doctrine of legitimate expectations Under Indian Law, there is often a conflation between the doctrines of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation.	None
This has been described in Jain and Jains well known treatise, Principles of Administrative Law(M.P. Jain and S.N. Jain, Principles of Administrative Law (7th edn., EBC 2013).)	None
At times, the expressions legitimate expectation and promissory estoppel are used interchangeably, but that is not a correct usage because legitimate expectation is a concept much broader in scope than promissory estoppel.	None
A reading of the relevant Indian cases, however, exhibit some confusion of ideas.	None
It seems that the judicial thinking has not as yet crystallised as regards the nature and scope of the doctrine.	None
At times, it has been referred to as merely a procedural doctrine at times, it has been treated interchangeably as promissory estoppel.	None
However both these ideas are incorrect.	None
As stated above, legitimate expectation is a substantive doctrine as well and has much broader scope than promissory estoppel.	None
In Punjab Communications Ltd. v. Union of India, the Supreme Court has observed in relation to the doctrine of legitimate expectation the doctrine of legitimate expectation in the substantive sense has been accepted as part of our law and that the decision maker can normally be compelled to give effect to his representation in regard to the expectation based on previous practice or past conduct unless some overriding public interest comes in the way Reliance must have been placed on the said representation and the representee must have thereby suffered detriment.	None
It is suggested that this formulation of the doctrine of legitimate expectation is not correct as it makes legitimate expectation practically synonymous with promissory estoppel.	None
Legitimate expectation may arise from conduct of the authority a promise is not always necessary for the purpose.	None
While this doctrinal confusion has the unfortunate consequence of making the law unclear, citizens have been the victims.	None
Representations by public authorities need to be held to scrupulous standards, since citizens continue to live their lives based on the trust they repose in the State.	None
In the commercial world also, certainty and consistency are essential to planning the affairs of business.	None
When public authorities fail to adhere to their representations without providing an adequate reason to the citizens for this failure, it violates the trust reposed by citizens in the State.	None
The generation of a business friendly climate for investment and trade is conditioned by the faith which can be reposed in government to fulfil the expectations which it generates.	None
Professors Jain and Deshpande characterize the consequences of this doctrinal confusion in the following terms Thus, in India, the characterization of legitimate expectations is on a weaker footing, than in jurisdictions like UK where the courts are now willing to recognize the capacity of public law to absorb the moral values underlying the notion of estoppel in the light of the evolution of doctrines like LE Legitimate Expectations and abuse of power.	None
If the Supreme Court of India has shown its creativity in transforming the notion of promissory estoppel from the limitations of private law, then it does not stand to reason as to why it should also not articulate and evolve the doctrine of LE for judicial review of resilement of administrative authorities from policies and longstanding practices.	None
If such a notion of LE is adopted, then not only would the Court be able to do away with the artificial hierarchy between promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation, but, it would also be able to hold the administrative authorities to account on the footing of public law outside the zone of promises on a stronger and principled anvil.	None
Presently, in the absence of a like doctrine to that of promissory estoppel outside the promissory zone, the administrative law adjudication of resilement of policies stands on a shaky public law foundation.	None
We shall therefore attempt to provide a cogent basis for the doctrine of legitimate expectation, which is not merely grounded on analogy with the doctrine of promissory estoppel.	None
The need for this doctrine to have an independent existence was articulated by Justice Frankfurter of the United State Supreme Court in Vitarelli vs. Seton(359 US 535 (1959) the principle espoused in this judgment has been followed by this Court in Amarjit Singh Ahluwalia (Dr) vs. State of Punjab, (1975) 3 SCC 503 , Sukhdev Singh vs. Bhagatram Sardar Singh Raghuvanshi, (1975) 1 SCC 421 (concurring opinion of Justice K K Mathew) and Ramana Dayaram Shetty vs. International Airport Authority of India, (1979) 3 SCC 489.)	None
An executive agency must be rigorously held to the standards by which it professes its action to be judged.	None
Accordingly, if dismissal from employment is based on a defined procedure, even though generous beyond the requirements that bind such agency, that procedure must be scrupulously observed.	None
This judicially evolved rule of administrative law is now firmly established and, if I may add, rightly so.	None
He that takes the procedural sword shall perish with the sword.	None
However, before we do this, it is important to clarify the understanding of the doctrine of legitimate expectation in previous judgements of this Court.	None
In National Buildings Construction Corporation vs. S. Raghunathan, (1998) 7 SCC 66.	Reasoning
(National Buildings Construction Corpn.), a three Judge bench of this Court, speaking through Justice S. Saghir Ahmad, held that The doctrine of legitimate expectation has its genesis in the field of administrative law.	None
The Government and its departments, in administering the affairs of the country, are expected to honour their statements of policy or intention and treat the citizens with full personal consideration without any iota of abuse of discretion.	Reasoning
The policy statements cannot be disregarded unfairly or applied selectively.	Reasoning
Unfairness in the form of unreasonableness is akin to violation of natural justice.	Reasoning
It was in this context that the doctrine of legitimate expectation was evolved which has today become a source of substantive as well as procedural rights.	Reasoning
But claims based on legitimate expectation have been held to require reliance on representations and resulting detriment to the claimant in the same way as claims based on promissory estoppel.	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied)	None
However, it is important to note that this observation was made by this Court while discussing the ambit of the doctrine of legitimate expectation under English Law, as it stood then.	Reasoning
As we have discussed earlier, there was a substantial conflation or overlap between the doctrines of legitimate expectation and promissory estoppel even under English Law since the former was often invoked as being analogous to the latter.	Reasoning
However, since then and since the judgment of this Court in National Buildings Construction Corporation (supra), the English Law in relation to the doctrine of legitimate expectation has evolved.	Reasoning
More specifically, it has actively tried to separate the two doctrines and to situate the doctrine of legitimate expectations on a broader footing.	Reasoning
In Regina (Reprotech (Pebsham) Ltd) vs. East Sussex County Council, 2003 1 WLR 348.	Reasoning
the House of Lords has held thus In any case, I think that it is unhelpful to introduce private law concepts of estoppel into planning law.	Reasoning
As Lord Scarman pointed out in Newbury District Council v Secretary of State for the Environment 1981 AC 578, 616, estoppels bind individuals on the ground that it would be unconscionable for them to deny what they have represented or agreed.	Reasoning
But these concepts of private law should not be extended into the public law of planning control, which binds everyone.	Reasoning
(See also Dyson J in R vs. Leicester City Council, Ex p Powergen UK Ltd. 2000 JPL 629, 637.)	Reasoning
There is of course an analogy between a private law estoppel and the public law concept of a legitimate expectation created by a public authority, the denial of which may amount to an abuse of power But it is no more than an analogy because remedies against public authorities also have to take into account the interests of the general public which the authority exists to promote.	Reasoning
Public law can also take into account the hierarchy of individual rights which exist under the Human Rights Act 1998, so that, for example, the individuals right to a home is accorded a high degree of protection (see Coughlans case, at pp 254255) while ordinary property rights are in general far more limited by considerations of public interest see R (Alconbury Developments Ltd) vs. Secretary of State for the Environment, Transport and the Regions 2001 2 WLR 1389.	Reasoning
It is true that in early cases such as the Wells case 1967 1 WLR 1000 and Lever Finance Ltd vs. Westminster (City) London Borough Council 1971 1 QB 222, Lord Denning MR used the language of estoppel in relation to planning law.	Reasoning
At that time the public law concepts of abuse of power and legitimate expectation were very undeveloped and no doubt the analogy of estoppel seemed usefulIt seems to me that in this area, public law has already absorbed whatever is useful from the moral values which underlie the private law concept of estoppel and the time has come for it to stand upon its own two feet.	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied)	None
In a concurring opinion in Monnet Ispat and Energy Ltd. vs. Union of India, (2012) 11 SCC1.	None
(Monnet Ispat), Justice H L Gokhale highlighted the different considerations that underlie the doctrines of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation.	None
The learned judge held that for the application of the doctrine of promissory estoppel, there has to be a promise, based on which the promisee has acted to its prejudice.	None
In contrast, while applying the doctrine of legitimate expectation, the primary considerations are reasonableness and fairness of the State action.	None
He observed thus Promissory Estoppel and Legitimate Expectations As we have seen earlier, for invoking the principle of promissory estoppel there has to be a promise, and on that basis the party concerned must have acted to its prejudice.	None
In the instant case it was only a proposal, and it was very much made clear that it was to be approved by the Central Government, prior whereto it could not be construed as containing a promise.	None
Besides, equity cannot be used against a statutory provision or notification.	None
290In any case, in the absence of any promise, the Appellants including Aadhunik cannot claim promissory estoppel in the teeth of the notifications issued under the relevant statutory powers.	None
Alternatively, the Appellants are trying to make a case under the doctrine of legitimate expectations.	None
The basis of this doctrine is in reasonableness and fairness.	None
However, it can also not be invoked where the decision of the public authority is founded in a provision of law, and is in consonance with public interest.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
In Union of India vs. Lt. Col. P.K. Choudhary, (2016) 4 SCC 236 speaking through Chief Justice T S Thakur, the Court discussed the decision in Monnet Ispat (supra) and noted its reliance on the judgment in Attorney General for New South Wales vs. Quinn, (1990) 64	None
Aust LJR 327 (1990) 170 CLR 1.	None
It then observed This Court went on to hold that if denial of legitimate expectation in a given case amounts to denial of a right that is guaranteed or is arbitrary, discriminatory, unfair or biased, gross abuse of power or in violation of principles of natural justice, the same can be questioned on the wellknown grounds attracting Article 14 of the Constitution but a claim based on mere legitimate expectation without anything more cannot ipso facto give a right to invoke these principles.	None
Thus, the Court held that the doctrine of legitimate expectation cannot be claimed as a right in itself, but can be used only when the denial of a legitimate expectation leads to the violation of Article 14 of the Constitution.	None
42	None
As regards the relationship between Article 14 and the doctrine of legitimate expectation, a three judge Bench in Food Corporation of India vs. Kamdhenu Cattle Feed Industries, (1993) 1 SCC 71 speaking through Justice J S Verma, held thus In contractual sphere as in all other State actions, the State and all its instrumentalities have to conform to Article 14 of the Constitution of which nonarbitrariness is a significant facet.	None
There is no unfettered discretion in public law A public authority possesses powers only to use them for public good.	None
This imposes the duty to act fairly and to adopt a procedure which is fairplay in action.	None
Due observance of this obligation as a part of good administration raises a reasonable or legitimate expectation in every citizen to be treated fairly in his interaction with the State and its instrumentalities, with this element forming a necessary component of the decisionmaking process in all State actions.	None
To satisfy this requirement of nonarbitrariness in a State action, it is, therefore, necessary to consider and give due weight to the reasonable or legitimate expectations of the persons likely to be affected by the decision or else that unfairness in the exercise of the power may amount to an abuse or excess of power apart from affecting the bona fides of the decision in a given case.	None
The decision so made would be exposed to challenge on the ground of arbitrariness.	None
Rule of law does not completely eliminate discretion in the exercise of power, as it is unrealistic, but provides for control of its exercise by judicial review.	None
The mere reasonable or legitimate expectation of a citizen, in such a situation, may not by itself be a distinct enforceable right, but failure to consider and give due weight to it may render the decision arbitrary, and this is how the requirement of due consideration of a legitimate expectation forms part of the principle of nonarbitrariness, a necessary concomitant of the rule of law.	None
Every legitimate expectation is a relevant factor requiring due consideration in a fair decisionmaking process.	None
Whether the expectation of the claimant is reasonable or legitimate in the context is a question of fact in each case.	None
Whenever the question arises, it is to be determined not according to the claimants perception but in larger public interest wherein other more important considerations may outweigh what would otherwise have been the legitimate expectation of the claimant.	None
A bona fide decision of the public authority reached in this manner would satisfy the requirement of nonarbitrariness and withstand judicial scrutiny.	None
The doctrine of legitimate expectation gets assimilated in the rule of law and operates in our legal system in this manner and to this extent.	None
(emphasis supplied) More recently, in NOIDA Entrepreneurs Assn. vs. NOIDA, (2011) 6 SCC 508 a twojudge bench of this Court, speaking through Justice B. S. Chauhan, elaborated on this relationship in the following terms State actions are required to be nonarbitrary and justified on the touchstone of Article 14 of the Constitution.	None
Action of the State or its instrumentality must be in conformity with some principle which meets the test of reason and relevance.	Reasoning
Functioning of a democratic form of Government demands equality and absence of arbitrariness and discrimination.	Reasoning
The rule of law prohibits arbitrary action and commands the authority concerned to act in accordance with law.	Reasoning
Every action of the State or its instrumentalities should neither be suggestive of discrimination, nor even apparently give an impression of bias, favouritism and nepotism.	Reasoning
If a decision is taken without any principle or without any rule, it is unpredictable and such a decision is antithesis to the decision taken in accordance with the rule of law.	Reasoning
Power vested by the State in a public authority should be viewed as a trust coupled with duty to be exercised in larger public and social interest.	Reasoning
Power is to be exercised strictly adhering to the statutory provisions and fact situation of a case.	Reasoning
Public authorities cannot play fast and loose with the powers vested in them.	Reasoning
A decision taken in an arbitrary manner contradicts the principle of legitimate expectation.	Reasoning
An authority is under a legal obligation to exercise the power reasonably and in good faith to effectuate the purpose for which power stood conferred.	Reasoning
In this context, in good faith means for legitimate reasons.	Reasoning
It must be exercised bona fide for the purpose and for none other (emphasis supplied) As such, we can see that the doctrine of substantive legitimate expectation is one of the ways in which the guarantee of nonarbitrariness enshrined under Article 14 finds concrete expression.	Reasoning
H.6 Expectations breached by the State of Jharkhand Applying the abovementioned principles in the present case, we are unable to perceive any substance in the submission of the State which was urged in defense before the High Court.	None
Not only did the State in the present case hold out a solemn representation, this representation was founded on its stated desire to encourage industrialization in the State.	Reasoning
The policy document spelt out The nature of the incentives The period during which the incentives would be available and The time limit within which followup action would be taken by the State government through its departments for implementing the Industrial Policy 2012.	None
The State having held out a solemn representation in the above terms, it would be manifestly unfair and arbitrary to deprive industrial units within the State of their legitimate entitlement.	Reasoning
The State government did as a matter of fact, issue a statutory notification under Section 9 but by doing so prospectively with effect from 8 January 2015 it negated the nature of the representation which was held out in the Industrial Policy 2012.	Reasoning
Absolutely no justification bearing on reasons of policy or public interest has been offered before the High Court or before this Court for the delay in issuing a notification.	Reasoning
The pleadings are completely silent on the reasons for the delay on the part of the government and offer no justification for making the exemption prospective, contrary to the terms of the representation held out in the Industrial Policy 2012.	Reasoning
It is one thing for the State to assert that the writ petitioner had no vested right but quite another for the State to assert that it is not duty bound to disclose its reasons for not giving effect to the exemption notification within the period that was envisaged in the Industrial Policy 2012.	Reasoning
Both the accountability of the State and the solemn obligation which it undertook in terms of the policy document militate against accepting such a notion of state power.	Reasoning
The state must discard the colonial notion that it is a sovereign handing out doles at its will.	Reasoning
Its policies give rise to legitimate expectations that the state will act according to what it puts forth in the public realm.	Reasoning
In all its actions, the State is bound to act fairly, in a transparent manner.	Reasoning
This is an elementary requirement of the guarantee against arbitrary state action which Article 14 of the Constitution adopts.	Reasoning
A deprivation of the entitlement of private citizens and private business must be proportional to a requirement grounded in public interest.	Reasoning
This conception of state power has been recognized by this Court in a consistent line of decisions.	Reasoning
As an illustration, we would like to extract this Courts observations in National Buildings Construction Cororation (supra)	None
The Government and its departments, in administering the affairs of the country are expected to honour their statements of policy or intention and treat the citizens with full personal consideration without any iota of abuse of discretion.	Reasoning
The policy statements cannot be disregarded unfairly or applied selectively.	Reasoning
Unfairness in the form of unreasonableness is akin to violation of natural justice.	Reasoning
Therefore, it is clear that the State had made a representation to the respondent and similarly situated industrial units under the Industrial Policy 2012.	Reasoning
This representation gave rise to a legitimate expectation on their behalf, that they would be offered a 50 per cent rebate deduction in electricity duty for the next five years.	Reasoning
However, due to the failure to issue a notification within the stipulated time and by the grant of the exemption only prospectively, the expectation and trust in the State stood violated.	Reasoning
Since the State has offered no justification for the delay in issuance of the notification, or provided reasons for it being in public interest, we hold that such a course of action by the State is arbitrary and is violative of Article 14.	Reasoning
H.7	None
The technical defences to the claim Assessment and recourse to Article 226 We have not been impressed with the submission of the State on the technicalities of the respondent not having filed in its assessment returns, a claim for exemption from electricity duty.	None
What is significant is that since no exemption notification had been issued under Section 9, a writ petition was initially filed before the High Court by Usha Martin Limited.	Reasoning
As a result of the writ petition, an exemption notification was issued on 8 January 2015.	Reasoning
Now it is correct that in the case of FYs 201213 and 201314, the orders of assessment were passed on 8 December 2015 and 16 December 2016, which was after the date of the exemption notification.	Reasoning
However, the fact remains that so long as the clause in the exemption notification granting it prospective effect continued to hold the field, the assessing officer as a creature of the statute was bound to enforce the terms of the exemption and accordingly denied any exemption for a period prior to 8 January 2015.	Reasoning
The only remedy which was available to the respondent, was to challenge the terms of the exemption notification which it did by instituting writ proceedings before the High Court under Article 226.	Reasoning
The argument of delay An earnest effort has been made on behalf of the appellant to submit that the writ petitions before the High Court ought not to have been entertained since they were instituted in 2019.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, Mr. Devashish Bharuka, learned Counsel on behalf of the respondents has, in the course of his submissions, correctly urged that the issue of delay has never been raised in the course of the proceedings before the High Court or raised as a ground in the Special Leave Petition before this Court.	None
In High Court of Judicature of Patna vs. Madan Mohan Prasad, (2011) 9 SCC 65 a two judge Bench of this Court, speaking through Justice J M Panchal, held thus The contention advanced on behalf of the appellant that the writ petition was filed by Respondent 1 on 10111990 i.e. seven years after he had superannuated from service, and therefore, the writ petition should have been dismissed on the ground of delay and laches, cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
The impugned judgment nowhere shows that such a point was argued by the appellant before the High Court.	Reasoning
No grievance is made in the memorandum of SLP that point regarding delay and laches was argued before the High Court but the same was not dealt with by the High Court when impugned judgment was delivered.	Reasoning
Further, Mr Bharuka has submitted that once the High Court has held the respondents writ petition to be legally sustainable on merits, this Court should not interfere on grounds on delays and laches alone.	Arguments of Respondent
This finds support in the judgment of this Court in Dayal Singh vs. Union of India, (2003) 2 SCC 593.	Reasoning
where a three judge Bench, speaking through Justice S B Sinha, held thus It was submitted that the respondents having filed a writ petition after a period of eight years, the same ought not to have been entertained.	Reasoning
Primarily a question of delay and laches is a matter which is required to be considered by the writ court.	Reasoning
Once the writ court has exercised its jurisdiction despite delay and laches on the part of the respondents, it is not for us at this stage to set aside the order of the High Court on that ground alone particularly when we find that the impugned judgment is legally sustainable.	Reasoning
Mr Bharuka is also correct in submitting that the State cannot possibly contend that the result of the delay has led to it altering its position to its detriment.	Reasoning
Nor is it a case where third parties may be affected as a consequence of a delay in instituting writ proceedings.	Reasoning
This submission finds support in Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. vs. Dolly Das, (1999) 4 SCC 450 where a two judge Bench, speaking through Justice S Rajendra Babu, noted thus So far as the contention regarding laches of the respondent in filing the writ petition is concerned, delay, by itself, may not defeat the claim for relief unless the position of the appellant had been so altered which cannot be retracted on account of lapse of time or inaction of the other party.	Reasoning
This aspect being dependent upon the examination of the facts of the case and such a contention not having been raised before the High Court, it would not be appropriate to allow the appellants to raise such a contention for the first time before us.	Reasoning
Besides, we may notice that the period for which the option of renewal has been exercised has not come to an end.	Reasoning
During the subsistence of such a period certainly the respondent could make a complaint that such exercise of option was not available to the appellants and, therefore, the jurisdiction of the High Court could be invoked even at a later stage.	Reasoning
Further, the appellants are not put to undue hardship in any manner by reason of this delay in approaching the High Court for a relief.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter, we are not inclined to interfere with the judgment of the High Court on the ground of delay alone when the judgment is based on legally sustainable principles.	Reasoning
The delay of the respondent in filing a writ petition by itself should not defeat the claim unless the position of the State has been so altered that it cannot be retracted on account of a lapse of time or the inaction of the writ petitioner.	Reasoning
The State has not in the present case either pleaded or argued any hardship if the respondent were to be granted relief.	Reasoning
Finally, the decisions in Bhailal Bhai (supra) and Suganmal (supra) related to a petitioner seeking a refund of an illegally collected tax.	Reasoning
In the present case, we are not concerned with such a situation.	Reasoning
Rather, the petitioner has come before this Court due to arbitrariness in State action which led to the nonfulfillment of their legitimate expectations.	Reasoning
The defence of unjust enrichment Nor is the court inclined to accept the plea of unjust enrichment  the High Court has not ordered a refund at all since the duty has been paid.	Reasoning
The respondent cannot be deprived of an adjustment of the excess duty paid.	Reasoning
Further, the States submission that there was no pleading by the respondent in the High Court on whether the amount being claimed as rebate deduction had been passed on by the respondent to its customers is factually incorrect.	Reasoning
In the writ petition filed before the High Court, the respondent specifically asserted that the burden of differential amount of electricity duty, realized by the State from the respondent herein, was not passed by the latter to its customers, either directly or indirectly or in any other manner.	Reasoning
The relevant excerpt of the pleading in the respondents writ petition reads thus That, at this stage, it is most humbly stated and submitted that if the amount of 50 of the electricity duty is refunded to the Petitioner, the same would not lead to unjust enrichment in the hands of the Petitioner as the Petitioner has not passed on the burden of differential amount of electricity duty, realized by RespondentState from the Petitioner, to its customers either directly or indirectly or in any other manner.	Reasoning
That it is most humbly stated and submitted that for the period in question 100 of electricity duty has been realized from the Petitioner by RespondentState of Jharkhand and, thus, extra 50 of the electricity duty has been borne by the Petitioner out of the own pocket and the burden of the same cannot be passed by the Petitioner to its customers.	Reasoning
That it is most humbly stated and submitted that the Petitioner is a manufacturer of Sponge Iron and M.S. Billet and the price of the said commodity is market driven and is controlled by the market.	Reasoning
The amount of electricity duty paid by the Petitioner was out of its own pocket affecting the gross profit of the Petitioner on sale of its final product.	Reasoning
It is categorically reiterated herein that burden of the amount of electricity has not been passed on by the Petitioner to its customers.	Reasoning
As regards the petitioners reliance on the nine judge Bench decision of this Court in Mafatlal Industries (supra), we would like to advert to the holding in the majority opinion of Justice B P Jeevan Reddy, speaking for himself and four other learned judges, in the following terms 108(iii).	Reasoning
A claim for refund, whether made under the provisions of the Act as contemplated in Proposition (i) above or in a suit or writ petition in the situations contemplated by Proposition (ii) above, can succeed only if the Petitioner Plaintiff alleges and establishes that he has not passed on the burden of duty to another person other persons.	Reasoning
His refund claim shall be allowed decreed only when he establishes that he has not passed on the burden of the duty or to the extent he has not so passed on, as the case may be.	Reasoning
Whether the claim for restitution is treated as a constitutional imperative or as a statutory requirement, it is neither an absolute right nor an unconditional obligation but is subject to the above requirement, as explained in the body of the judgment.	Reasoning
Where the burden of the duty has been passed on, the claimant cannot say that he has suffered any real loss or prejudice.	Reasoning
The real loss or prejudice is suffered in such a case by the person who has ultimately borne the burden and it is only that person who can legitimately claim its refund.	Reasoning
But where such person does not come forward or where it is not possible to refund the amount to him for one or the other reason, it is just and appropriate that that amount is retained by the State, i.e., by the people.	Reasoning
There is no immorality or impropriety involved in such a proposition.	Reasoning
The doctrine of unjust enrichment is a just and salutary doctrine.	Reasoning
No person can seek to collect the duty from both ends.	Reasoning
In other words, he cannot collect the duty from his purchaser at one end and also collect the same duty from the State on the ground that it has been collected from him contrary to law.	Reasoning
The power of the Court is not meant to be exercised for unjustly enriching a person.	Reasoning
In the present case, as we have previously held, the present respondent did not collect the electricity duty from both ends, to deploy the above phrasing.	Reasoning
As a result, this doctrine has no application to the facts of the case at hand.	Reasoning
In Indian Council for EnviroLegal Action vs. Union of India, (2011) 8 SCC 161 a two judge Bench of this Court, speaking through Justice Dalveer Bhandari, outlined the ingredients of unjust enrichment in the following terms Unjust enrichment has been defined by the court as the unjust retention of a benefit to the loss of another, or the retention of money or property of another against the fundamental principles of justice or equity and good conscience.	Reasoning
A person is enriched if he has received a benefit, and he is unjustly enriched if retention of the benefit would be unjust.	Reasoning
Unjust enrichment of a person occurs when he has and retains money or benefits which in justice and equity belong to another.	Reasoning
Applying this definition to the facts of the case at hand, the doctrine of unjust enrichment could have been attracted if the respondent had passed on the electricity duty to its customers and then retained the refund occasioned by the 50 per cent rebate in its own pocket.	Reasoning
This is not demonstrated to be the factual position and hence, the respondent cannot be denied relief on the application of the doctrine.	Reasoning
Conclusion The narrow issue is whether the respondent is entitled to a rebate deduction from electricity duty which is answered in the affirmative.	Decision
It is necessary, however, to clarify that the respondent would not be entitled to a rebate deduction for FY 201112.	Decision
In terms of Clause 35.7(b) of the Industrial Policy 2012, the entitlement ensues from the financial year following the commencement of production.	Decision
The respondent commenced production on 17 August 2011.	Decision
Hence, the order of the High Court would have to be confirmed for FYs 201213 and 201314.	Decision
In conclusion, we are in agreement with the conclusion of the High Court that the respondent was entitled to an exemption from electricity duty, although for the reasons indicated in this judgment.	Decision
Further, the relief granted would stand confined to FYs 201213 and 201314.	Decision
The appeals shall stand disposed of in the above terms.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
Pending application(s), if any, stand disposed of.	Decision
