 Dinesh Maheshwari, J. Preliminary and brief outline These appeals by special leave are directed against the common judgment and order dated 18.12.2014 in Writ Petition Nos. 2552 of 2013 and 6258 of 2013 whereby, the High Court of Judicature at Hyderabad for the State of Telangana and the State of Andhra Pradesh (Hereinafter referred to as the High Court) upheld the assessment orders dated 20.01.2010 and 18.05.2010 passed by the Commercial Tax Officer, Chinawaltair Circle (Hereinafter referred to as the CTO.) and held that the transactions in question were not the sales in the course of import but had been interState sales, liable to Central Sales Tax and denied the exemption claimed under Section 5(2) of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (Hereinafter referred to as the CST Act.)	Issue
while granting time to the appellant to produce the prescribed CForms to the assessing authority for availing the benefit of concessional rate of tax.	Issue
We may usefully observe at the outset that, in all, seven transactions of similar nature form the subject matter of these appeals one relating to the assessment for the year 200506 and others relating to the assessment for the year 200607.	Facts
The common salient features of all these transactions had been that they were for supply of timber from a foreign country and were allegedly executed in a similar fashion thus The supplier (party number 1) sold the goods in question to the first buyer (party number 2) and delivered them at the port of shipment.	Facts
Thereafter, while the goods were in transit on high seas, party number 2 transferred the goods to the appellant (who was invariably party number 3 in these transactions) by endorsing the bill of lading in favour of the appellant.	Facts
Further to this and while the goods were on high seas, the appellant allegedly transferred them to the endbuyer (party number 4) by endorsing the bill of lading in favour of the endbuyer.	Arguments of Petitioner
2.1.	None
However, in each of these transactions, when the goods in question reached the port at Visakhapatnam (also known as Vizag), the appellant carried out the proceedings envisaged by the Customs Act, 1962 (Hereinafter referred to as the Customs Act.) and filed a bill of entry for warehousing and thereafter, filed another bill of entry for home consumption (exbond).	Facts
Accordingly and on the basis of such bills of entry, the appellant was duly assessed for customs duty.	Facts
The appellant later on raised debit notes on the endbuyers.	Facts
With reference to the aforementioned transactions and the high seas sale agreements, the case of appellant had been that it had only acted as an agent of the endbuyers while filing the bills of entry and the sales of the goods in question to the endbuyers, being the sales taking place in the course of import of goods into the territory of India, were eligible for exemption from payment of sales tax by virtue of Section 5(2) of the CST Act.	Facts
However, in the assessment orders dated 20.01.2010 and 18.05.2010, the CTO denied the benefit of exemption to the appellant, particularly for the reason that the appellant cleared the goods from the customs after filing the bills of entry and later on raised debit notes, showing sales to the endbuyers.	Facts
The CTO held that the goods in question had crossed the customs frontiers of India when the bills of entry were filed by the appellant and the goods were assessed to customs duty and hence, the sales effected by the appellant to the endbuyers could not be said to be high sea sales.	Facts
The appellant felt aggrieved of the orders so passed by the CTO but, instead of availing the statutory remedy of appeal, chose to challenge the same by way of writ petitions in the High Court.	Facts
These writ petitions have been considered and dismissed by the High Court by way of the impugned judgment and order dated 18.12.2014.	Facts
The High Court rejected the contention that the appellant had only acted as an agent of the respective endbuyers while filing the bills of entry at the port of destination with the findings, inter alia, to the effect that customs duty could be assessed only on the importer of goods that neither in the bill of entry nor in the Import General Manifest (IGM for short.)	Facts
the name of end buyer was reflected as the importer that it was the appellant alone who had imported the goods and that the sale by the appellant to the endbuyer could have only been effected after the goods were cleared for home consumption.	Facts
The High Court also rejected the contention that high seas sale to endbuyer had occasioned the import of goods into the territory of India.	Facts
The appellant has challenged the decision of the High Court by way of these appeals on a variety of grounds as shall be noticed hereafter.	Facts
As noticed, the transactions involved in the present matters had been of similar nature.	Facts
For appropriate dealing with the issues involved, we may take note of the facts relating to the assessment order dated 20.01.2010 pertaining to the tax period 200506 and the assessment order dated 18.05.2010 pertaining to the tax period 200607 in necessary details.	Facts
Assessment Order dated 20.01.2010 relevant facts and background The appellant M s. Vellanki Frame Works is said to be a sole proprietary concern, engaged in the business of sale and purchase of logs, timber and wooden batons and in the course of its business, the appellant also imports timber from other countries.	None
For the tax period 200506, in respect of interState sales falling within clause (a) of Section 3 of the CST Act, the appellant claimed payment of tax at the concessional rate of 4 covering a turnover of Rs.	Facts
55,23,233/	Facts
and in support thereof, furnished 9Nos. of CForms and also sought exemption from payment of tax on a turnover of Rs.	Facts
1,14,86,342/ on the ground that these sales were effected by transfer of title documents before the goods had crossed the customs frontiers of India.	Facts
Even while accepting the claim of the appellant for concessional rate of tax on the interState sales turnover, the CTO proposed to reject the claim for exemption for want of evidence and to treat the transactions in question as interState sales under Section 3(a) of the CST Act.	Facts
Hence, the CTO issued showcause notice dated 19.11.2009 to the appellant stating, inter alia, that the appellant had claimed exemption on the ground that the said sales were effected by transfer of the document of title before the goods had crossed customs frontiers of India but had not furnished any evidence in support thereof.	Facts
7.1.	None
In response to the said showcause notice, the appellant asserted that the transactions in question were covered by Section 5(2) of the CST Act and furnished seven documents being the sales invoice, bill of lading, two high seas sale agreements, bill of entry for warehousing, bill of entry for exbond and the debit note raised on the endbuyer.	Facts
The CTO, however, found that on filing of the said bills of entry, the appellant alone was assessed to customs duty at both the stages.	Facts
Hence, the CTO was of opinion that the import stream dried up on such clearance by the customs authorities and the goods got mixed into the stream of local goods and any subsequent sale by the appellant would constitute a sale of local goods exigible to tax.	Facts
In view of this opinion, the CTO proposed to treat the sale by the appellant to the endbuyer as interState sale falling under Section 3(a) of the CST Act and issued further showcause notice dated 02.12.2009 inviting objections, if any, from the appellant.	Facts
After taking a few adjournments, the appellant filed its letter of objection to the showcause notice dated 02.12.2009 while giving out the particulars of the transactions in question and the details of its stand which could be usefully noticed as follows 8.1.	Facts
The case of the appellant had been that M s. Radha Industries, Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh) (The endbuyer, hereinafter also referred to as Radha.)	Facts
was its close business associate that Radha desired to purchase the subject goods from M s. World Best Trading Co. (L.L.C.), Dubai (U.A.E.)(The seller, hereinafter also referred to as WBT.)	Facts
but, for not having the requisite infrastructure with the Customs Department, approached the appellant for help that though the appellant had the requisite infrastructure facilities at Visakhapatnam Customs, but was not having the letter of credit facilities for import that in the given circumstances, the appellant and Radha entered into a quadripartite agreement with the seller and Indus Tropics Ltd.(The first buyer, hereinafter also referred to as Indus.)	Facts
whereby, it was agreed that Indus would purchase the goods and during the course of transit of the goods from the port of shipment, would sell them to the appellant that the appellant would purchase the said goods from Indus as the agent of Radha and transfer the documents on high seas in favour of Radha for which, Radha would pay the appellant commission of 2 plus bank charges.	Facts
8.2.	None
It was asserted by the appellant that pursuant to the said quadripartite agreement, Indus purchased the goods from WBT and the seller sent the consignment from the port of shipment with bill of lading dated 09.12.2005	Facts
that on 10.12.2005, Indus caused transfer of the bill of lading on high seas in favour of the appellant and that on 12.12.2005, another high seas sale agreement was entered into between the appellant and Radha whereby the bill of lading was sold in favour of Radha.	Facts
It was further asserted by the appellant that on and from 12.12.2005, the appellant did not have control over the bill of lading dated 09.12.2005, as the same had been parted in favour of Radha by then.	Facts
It was yet further asserted that since Radha did not have the customs facility at Visakhapatnam customs port, the appellant had extended its help by filing the bills of entry in its name for the purpose of customs bonding as well as customs clearance but, it had only been a friendly transaction arranged by the appellant in favour of Radha and the appellant paid the entire amount to Indus without retaining anything as commission.	Facts
8.3.	None
The submissions of the appellant had been that the circumstance of its filing the bill of entry had no relevance in determining the nature of transaction which was evidenced by the relevant documents, including (i) quadripartite Master Agreement dated 21.11.2005 and (ii) High Seas Sale Agreement dated 12.12.2005.	Facts
According to the appellant, it had transferred the import document on high seas and at any rate, the title in the goods always stood vested in Radha, as the owner of the goods and that the appellant was merely acting as an agent of Radha at all points of time.	Facts
The appellant maintained that by reason of transfer of the import document, it could not be said that it had sold the goods to Radha on the contrary, as the appellant had acted as the agent of Radha, at all points of time including at the time of purchase, the transactions between the appellant and Radha cannot be treated as between one principal and another.	Facts
The appellant further maintained that it had charged commission at 2 plus bank charges to Radha and had parted with the entire amount to Indus, which was the proof that it had only acted as a conduit, as a friendly gesture to Radha.	Facts
It was also submitted that the transaction was accounted in the books of accounts of the appellant as an agency purchase that receipt and payment of commission was also accounted in its books of accounts and the balance sheet for the year also supported this submission.	Facts
Put in a nutshell, the appellant asserted that the transfer of imported goods by it to Radha did not partake the character of sale of goods and that, in any event, the transfer, having been effected over high seas before bonding with the customs authorities, cannot be treated as interState sale in the State of Andhra Pradesh.	Facts
The contentions of the appellant were examined by the CTO in the impugned assessment order dated 20.01.2010.	Facts
For their relevance, the observations and findings in this assessment order could be usefully noticed as follows 9.1.	Facts
The CTO summed up the stand of the appellant that the documents of title to the goods were transferred to Radha on high seas by virtue of the High Seas Sale Agreement dated 12.12.2005 that the transaction did not attain the character of an interState sale and that filing of the bill of entry had no relevance in determining the nature of the transaction.	Facts
The CTO observed that it was not the case of the appellant that the sale or purchase had occasioned the import falling under the first limb of Section 5(2) of the CST Act and the question which necessitated examination was as to whether there was a sale of goods by the appellant, or it had been a commission transaction as stated by the appellant.	Facts
The CTO examined the computer printout of the Trading Account for the year 20052006 where the purchase was shown as purchase trading (high seas), and the relevant sale was shown as sales trading (high seas).	Facts
After referring to a few other details of the ledger account and debit note etc., the CTO noted the contents of High Seas Sale Agreement dated 10.12.2005 entered into between Indus and the appellant wherein the appellant was described as the buyer the contents of second High Seas Sale Agreement dated 12.12.2005 wherein the appellant and Radha were described as the seller and the buyer respectively and the letter of the appellant dated 25.11.2009 wherein, while submitting certain documents like the sales invoice, the bill of lading, high seas sale agreement, bill of entry for warehousing and the bill of entry for home consumption, the appellant had stated that exemption from payment of tax was claimed on the ground that the said sales were effected by transfer of documents of title to the goods before the goods had crossed the customs frontiers of India.	Facts
The CTO, therefore, observed that obviously, the intention of the appellant was to sell the goods and, in fact, there was a sale and there was no truth in the statement of appellant that it had acted as the agent of Radha.	Facts
The relevant part of the order reads as follows 1).In the High Sea sale agreement dated 10.12.2005 entered into between M s Indus Tropics Ld and M s Vellanki Frame Works the assessee was described as the buyer.	Facts
In the 2nd High Sea sale agreement dated 12.12.2005 entered into between the assessee M s Vellanki frame Works and M s Radha Industries  the parties were described as the seller and the buyer respectively.	Facts
Similarly in the letter dated 25.11.2009the assessee stated that they claimed exemption from payment of tax on the ground that the said sales were effected by the transfer of document of title to the goods before the goods have crossed the customs frontiers of India.	Facts
Therefore, it is obvious that there is intention to sell the goods and in fact there was sale.	Facts
There is no truth in their statement that they acted as an agent to M s Radha Industries.	Facts
9.2.	None
In regard to the main contention of the appellant that document of title was transferred before the goods had crossed the customs frontier of India and the transaction fell within Section 5(2) of the Act, the CTO examined the documentary evidence placed on record and found the facts that (i) Indus had imported 324 PCS of Myanmar Hardwood Gurjan Round Logs from Yangon (Myanmar) to Vizag (India) and the bill of lading No. 01/YGNVZG dated 09.12.2005 was endorsed by the importer in favour of the appellant (ii) on the strength of such endorsed documents, Sri Sanjiv Kumar Agarwal (sole proprietor of the appellant) presented the bill of entry No. 804116 dated 12.12.2005 for warehousing and customs duty was assessed on the appellant alone on this bill of entry for warehousing and (iii) subsequently, the appellant filed the bill of entry for home consumption No. 804353 dated 28.12.2005 and customs duty was assessed on the appellant alone on this bill of entry.	Facts
The CTO also referred to the debit note dated 12.01.2006 raised by the appellant on Radha for a sum of Rs.	Facts
1,14,86,342/ and observed that though the intention of the parties in High Seas Sale Agreement dated 12.12.2005 was to effect the transfer before the goods crossed the customs frontiers in India but, in fact, the said agreement did not come into operation and the sale took place on 12.01.2006, as shown in the debit note.	Facts
9.3.	None
The CTO further held that the goods must be treated as having crossed the customs frontiers of India when the bill of entry was made and the goods were assessed to customs duty and the sale effected by the appellant could not be said to be sale in the course of import or high seas sale inasmuch as the goods had crossed the customs frontiers.	Facts
The CTO reiterated that the second high seas sale agreement had not come into operation and there was no case for claiming that the transfer of documents was effected by virtue of the said agreement itself.	Facts
With reference to the facts of the case and the relevant caselaw, the CTO held that the sale in fact took place only after customs clearance and proceeded to overrule the contentions of the appellant.	Facts
The CTO, inter alia, observed and held as under 2).	Facts
In view of the above legal position and the facts of the case, it is to be treated that the goods had crossed customs frontiers of India when the bill of entry having been made, the goods were assessed to customs duty, Hence the sales effected by the assesees cant be said to be sales in the course of import or High Sea Sales in as much as the goods had crossed the customs frontiers.	Facts
It may not be out of place to mention that as far as the quadripartite agreement to have been entered into on 21.11.05 is concerned, it has not come into operation while the transactions is taking place.	Facts
Had there been any nexus in respect thereof the necessity of the subsequent two high sea sale agreements dated 10.12.2005 and 12.12.2005 would not have arose in the scheme.	Facts
It is to be further noted that obviously the 2nd high sea sale agreement has not come into operation when the sale is taking place.	None
Thus there is no case in claiming that the transfer of documents was effected by virtue of the said agreement itself.	Facts
As.	Facts
was held by the Honourable Apex Court in the case of Tata Iron Steel Co Ltd, Bombay	Facts
Vs. S.R. Sarkar and others 11	Facts
STC 655 a sale will be reckoned as a sale on completion of such sale and a mere contract of sale is not a sale within the definition of sale in Section 2(a).	Facts
Therefore, it is to be observed that the sale has not taken place in the manner contemplated in the agreement.	Facts
The sale in fact took place after  customs clearance only.	Facts
Thus, there is no nexus to the said agreement.	None
9.4.	None
In view of the above, the CTO disallowed the exemptions claimed by the appellant on the turnover of Rs.	Facts
1,14,86,342/ while treating the transactions as interState sales falling under Section 3(a) of the CST Act and carried out assessment accordingly, holding the appellant liable to pay balance tax to the tune of Rs. 14,35,793/. Assessment Order dated 18.05.2010 relevant facts and background Six other transactions of similar nature formed the subject matter of the assessment order dated 18.05.2010 relating to the tax period 200607.	Facts
The CTO found that the appellant had claimed exemption from payment of tax, in respect of a turnover of Rs.	Facts
4,05,09,427/, while contending that this turnover represented the sales effected by transfer of documents of title before the goods had crossed the customs frontiers of India but, had not filed any evidence to show that the said sales were effected in such a manner.	Facts
Accordingly, a showcause notice dated 26.11.2009 was issued.	Facts
In response thereto, the appellant furnished certain documents relating to these six transactions of similar nature involving four parties, being the seller, the first buyer, the appellant, and the endbuyer respectively.	Facts
10.1.	None
As regards first transaction, Master Agreement dated 01.04.2006 for supply of timber logs was entered into amongst Alkemal Singapore Pte Ltd. (seller),	Facts
Purbanchal Lumbers Pvt. Ltd. (first buyer), Vellanki Frame Works (appellant) and the said Radha Industries (endbuyer).	Facts
Purbanchal Lumbers Pvt. Ltd., imported 155 PCS of Myanmar Hardwood Gurjan Round logs from Yangon (Myanmar) to Vizag (India) the bill of lading No.	Facts
GCTC/531/06/11 dated 08.04.2016 was endorsed in favour of the appellant on 11.04.2006 pursuant to the High Seas Sale Agreement and on 11.04.2006 itself, bill of lading was endorsed by the appellant in favour of Radha.	Facts
Thereafter, on 12.04.2006, bill of entry for warehousing (B E No. 601744) was filed by the appellant for warehousing of timber and then, on 26.04.2006, bill of entry for home consumption (B E No. 602044) was filed by the appellant.	Facts
10.2.	None
As regards second transaction, Master Agreement dated 01.08.2006 for supply of timber was entered into amongst Wood Craft International Pte.	Facts
Ltd. (seller),	Facts
Alpine Panels Pvt. Ltd. (first buyer), Vellanki Frame Works (appellant) and M s. Indo Bitumen Products, Rajasthan (endbuyer).	Facts
M s. Alpine Panels Pvt. Ltd., imported 273 PCS of Malaysian Round Logs from Singapore to Vizag the bill of lading No. AMB1106/VIZ05 dated 20.08.2006 was endorsed in favour of the appellant on 26.08.2006 and on this very date, the bill of lading was endorsed by the appellant in favour of the endbuyer M s. Indo Bitumen Products.	Facts
Thereafter, on 30.08.2006, bill of entry for warehousing (B E No. 604498) was filed by the appellant for warehousing of timber and then, on 07.09.2006, bill of entry for home consumption (B E No. 604677) was filed by the appellant.	Facts
Here again, customs duty was assessed on Sri Sanjiv Kumar Agarwal, Vellanki Frame Works, Vizag (the appellant).	Facts
10.3.	None
The third and fourth transactions in this assessment had been of the same nature wherein two Master Agreements dated 01.10.2006 for supply of timber were asserted involving the said Wood Craft International Pte Ltd. (seller), Purbanchal Lumbers Pvt. Ltd. (first buyer), Vellanki Frame Works (appellant) and M s. Pine Exporter, New Delhi (endbuyer).	Facts
These transactions involved two bills of lading, Nos. AMB1306/VIZ01 and AMB1306/VIZ02 dated 08.10.2006, which were similarly endorsed by the first buyer in favour of the appellant on 18.10.2006 and on the same date, the appellant endorsed the same in favour of the endbuyer.	Facts
Thereafter, in a similar fashion, the appellant filed the bills of entry on 19.10.2006 for warehousing and then, on 31.10.2006 for home consumption.	Facts
10.4.	None
Again, the fifth and sixth transactions in this assessment had also been of the same nature wherein two Master Agreements dated 11.12.2006 and 15.12.2006 for supply of timber were asserted involving the said Wood Craft International Pte Ltd. (seller), M s. G.K. Ganeriwala Sons (first buyer), Vellanki Frame Works (appellant) and M s. Esskay Impex, New Delhi (end buyer).	Facts
These transactions involved two bills of lading, Nos. CON1206/VIZ04 and CON1206/VIZ05 dated 21.12.2006 which were similarly endorsed by the first buyer in favour of the appellant on 04.01.2007 and on the same date, the appellant endorsed the same in favour of the endbuyer.	Facts
Thereafter, in the similar fashion, the appellant filed the bills of entry on 05.01.2007 for warehousing and then, on 18.01.2007 for home consumption.	Facts
10.5.	None
In all these transactions and dealings, after filing of bills of entry, customs duty was assessed on Sri Sanjiv Kumar Agarwal, the proprietor of appellant firm.	Facts
However, the appellant maintained that the said transactions had been of high seas sales to the respective endbuyers, on whom the debit notes were raised by the appellant later.	Facts
In the assessment order dated 18.05.2010, the CTO held, inter alia, that on filing the bill of entry for warehousing and the bill of entry for exbond (home consumption), the appellant alone was assessed to customs duty that the import stream dried up on such clearance by the customs authorities and the goods mixed into the stream of local goods that any subsequent sale by the appellant, therefore, constituted sale of local goods exigible to tax and that the transactions, for which the appellant had claimed exemption as high sea sales, were liable to be treated as interState sales falling under Section 3(a) of the CST Act.	Facts
In other words, the assessing authority held that the sales by the appellant to the endbuyers took place only after assessment of customs duty on the appellant upon filing the bills of entry and thus, the said sales attained the character of sale of local goods, for the goods in question having crossed the customs frontiers of India.	Facts
11.1.	None
Apart from the above, the CTO also pointed out that when the letters were addressed to the dealers at the other end (i.e., the endbuyers), one of them, M s. Pine Exporters, New Delhi, stated that the referred party (i.e., the appellant) was not known to them and that they had never received any Malaysian Round logs from the appellant whereas the letter sent to M s. Esskay Impex, New Delhi, was returned with the postal endorsement that no such firm was existing at the given address.	Facts
These factors were also taken into account by the assessing authority to hold that the claim of the appellant was not genuine and the transactions, on which the appellant had claimed exemption as high sea sales, should be treated as interState sales falling under Section 3(a) of the CST Act.	Facts
11.2.	None
The relevant part of the observations and findings of the CTO in the assessment order dated 18.05.2010 could also be usefully extracted as under When these settled principles are applied to the instant case, as is ascertainable from the bills of entry for warehouse and the exbond of entry  transfer of title deeds has not taken place before filing the bills of entry and the assessment of duty.	Facts
The sale took place after the assessment is made on the assessee and on filing of the bills of entry.	Facts
Thus the said sales attained the character of sales of local goods.	Facts
Therefore, in view of the above legal position and the facts of the case, it is to be treated that the goods had crossed customs frontiers of India when the bill of entry having been made, the goods were assessed to customs duty.	Facts
Hence the sales effected by the assessee cant be said to be sales in the course of import or high sea sales in as much as the goods had crossed the customs frontiers.	Facts
Further, when addressed the dealers at the other end requesting to confirm the purchase from the assessee  M s Pine Exporters, New Delhi (sale reported at transaction No.3 Rs.11057059/ and transaction No.4 Rs.4124375/ total 1558143400) the party replied that they do not know the referred party and have never received any Malaysian Round Logs from the said party which shows that the dealers claim is not genuine.	Facts
Further, the letter sent to M s Esskay Impex, New Delhi requesting to confirm the purchase from the assessee in transaction No. 5 Rs.8277263 and transaction No.6 Rs.3454968 total 11732231/, was returned by the postal authorities with an endorsement No such firm at this place which also shows that the dealers claim is not genuine.	Facts
In view of this position, the transactions on which the assessee has claimed exemption being high sea sales are treated as interstate sales falling under Section 3(a) of CST Act.	Facts
Writ Petitions before the High Court As noticed, the assessment orders aforesaid could have been challenged in statutory appeal but the appellant chose to challenge the same by way of writ petitions, being W.P. No. 4552 of 2013 (against the assessment order dated 20.01.2010) and	Facts
W.P. No. 6258 of 2013 (against the assessment order dated 18.05.2010).	Facts
Both these writ petitions were taken up for consideration together by the High Court and were dismissed by the common judgment and order dated 18.12.2014.	Facts
The High Court, in the impugned judgment and order dated 18.12.2014, examined the variety of contentions urged by the parties and took up for determination the issues arising in the matter under different headings while primarily dealing with the facts relating to the assessment order dated 20.01.2010 as involved in W.P. No. 4552 of 2013.	Facts
The High Court examined the issues (i) as to whether the CTO before whom the dealer had filed returns under CST Act was having authority to pass the assessment order in the absence of authorisation from the Deputy Commissioner (ii) the extent, scope and contours of judicial review of assessment order in the writ jurisdiction (iii) as to whether the sale by appellant to Radha was an interState sale for the appellant having filed the bill of entry and having been assessed to customs duty (iv) as to whether the sale in favour of Radha occasioned movement of goods into the country (v) as to whether the procedure prescribed for duty free shop was applicable to the present case and (vi) as to whether the appellant was entitled to be granted time to submit CForms?	Facts
Having regard to the facts and circumstance of the case, we may briefly summarise the observations and findings of the High Court in relation to these issues.	Facts
14.1.	None
As regards the question of the authority of CTO to pass the assessment order in question, the High Court extensively examined the scope of the provisions contained in A.P. Value Added Tax Act, 2005, A.P. Value Added Tax Rules, 2005 and Section 9(2) of the CST Act and ultimately rejected the contentions urged on behalf of the appellant that the CTO was lacking authority to assess the appellant to tax under the CST Act.	Facts
14.2.	None
As regards judicial review of assessment order in writ jurisdiction, the High Court took note of the extensive arguments on behalf of the appellant as regards nature of transaction with reference to quadripartite agreement and endorsement of bill of lading by the importer in favour of the appellant and subsequently by the appellant in favour of Radha (endbuyer) while the goods were on high seas as also the argument that there was no finding against genuineness of the endorsements on the bill of lading.	Facts
The High Court observed that the appellant had invoked writ jurisdiction against the assessment order without availing the statutory remedy of appeal and also pointed out that though certiorari was the appropriate remedy in challenge to a quasijudicial order, the appellant had sought a writ of mandamus.	Facts
The High Court further observed that it was not even the case of the appellant that the first respondent had failed to perform a statutory duty or that the appellants legal rights were adversely affected and therefore, the appellant was not entitled to a writ of mandamus.	Facts
The High Court, thereafter, pointed out the limited parameters within which the validity of assessment orders and findings therein could be examined in certiorari jurisdiction.	Facts
The High Court took note of the consideration adopted and the findings recorded in the impugned assessment orders and observed that the assessing authority had not taken into consideration the effect of high seas sale agreement and bill of lading etc., but has held the sales by appellant to Radha and other endbuyers outside the State to be interState sales for the reason that those sales could only have been effected after the appellant had filed the bills of entry for home consumption and was assessed to customs duty.	Facts
The High Court observed that only if those findings were set aside would the matter call for remand with direction to the assessing authority to consider the other documents relied upon by the appellant.	Facts
The High Court observed thus In passing the impugned assessment orders, and in subjecting the transactions to tax as an interstate sale under Section 3(a) of the CST Act, the assessing authority has not taken into consideration the effect of the High Sea sales agreements and other agreements, the bill of lading or the provisions of the Indian Bill of Lading Act.	Facts
He has held that the sale of goods by the petitioner to Radha Industries (and other outside the State purchasers) was an interstate sale on the ground that these sales could only have been effected after the petitioner had filed the bill of entry for home consumption, and after he was assessed to customs duty.	Facts
It is only if these findings are set aside, would the matter necessitate remand, and the assessing authority being directed to consider the other documents relied upon by the petitioner.	Facts
14.3.	None
After having dealt with the aforesaid preliminary aspects, the High Court entered into the core issue involved in the matter i.e., as to whether the sale by appellant to Radha was an interState sale for the appellant having filed the bill of entry and having been assessed to customs duty.	Facts
The High Court took note of the rival submission where, on one hand, it was contended on behalf of the appellant that there was no prohibition under the Customs Act or the Rules Regulations made thereunder, for clearance of goods by the holder of an authorisation by the endorsee of the bill of lading that even otherwise, an importer under the Customs Act includes any owner or any person holding himself out to be an importer and, as the bill of lading had been endorsed in his favour, the appellant was entitled to file the bill of entry as an importer and that the departments contention, that payment of customs duty by the appellant was conclusive of the import having ended and any sale by the appellant thereafter could only be a domestic sale, was not flowing from the provisions of the Customs Act.	Facts
On the other hand, it was contended on behalf of the department that the appellant alone was assessed to customs duty by virtue of his filing the bill of entry as the importer that the system permitted only the appellant to file the bill of entry as his name alone was recorded in the Import General Manifest (IGM) as the importer that the contents of the bill of entry made it clear that there was no high seas sale, subsequent to the high seas sale in favour of the appellant as the bill of entry was generated on the basis of the IGM that Radha was not assessed to customs duty and if Radha was the last buyer during importation, IGM would have reflected the same that the appellant was assessed to customs duty as being the last buyer final importer of the goods before the goods got mixed with the general goods and the sale of goods by appellant to Radha was not a sale in the course of import, rather it was an interState sale as Radha was located outside the State of Andhra Pradesh and that if the appellant had sold the goods to Radha and yet got itself assessed to customs duty, it could only mean that the appellant and Radha had colluded to evade customs duty on the sale transaction value.	Facts
14.4.	None
In view of the rival submissions, the High Court took note of the requirements of Section 5(2) of the CST Act that, for a sale to be in the course of import, it has to be either the one which has occasioned the import or the one which has been effected by a transfer of document of title to the goods before the goods had crossed the customs frontiers of India.	Facts
As the claim of the appellant, for treating the sale in question to be in the course of import, was being denied by the department for the reason that the appellant alone had filed the bill of entry for warehousing as also the bill of entry for home consumption, the High Court proceeded to examine the facts of the case visa vis the essential features related with the processes of importation and filing of bill of entry while subdividing its consideration with reference to various terms in, and various provisions of, the Customs Act and the CST Act.	Facts
14.4.1.	None
The High Court took note that the expression crossing the customs frontiers of India was defined in Section 2(ab) of the CST Act to mean crossing the limits of the area of a customs station in which the imported goods or exported goods are ordinarily kept before clearance by customs authorities and as per the Explanation thereto, customs station and customs authorities shall have the same meaning as in the Customs Act.	Facts
The High Court observed that the customs frontiers, for the purpose of the CST Act, was equated to the limits of the area of the customs station in which the goods were stored and crossing of such station being regarded as amounting to crossing the customs frontiers of India.	Facts
14.4.2.	None
As regards connotation of the term importer, the High Court examined the definition of import in Section 2(23) and of imported goods in Section 2(25) of the Customs Act and observed that the moment goods, brought into India from a foreign country, are cleared for home consumption, they get mixed with the local goods and cease to be imported goods thereafter.	Facts
The High Court also examined the inclusive definition of importer in Section 2(26) of the Customs Act and observed that any person who imports goods from a foreign country to India would undoubtedly be an importer and the owner of the goods and a person holding himself out be an importer would also be an importer, but only during the period between the importation of the goods and the time they are cleared for home consumption, and not prior thereto or thereafter.	Facts
The High Court observed that the expanded definition of importer could not be used to usurp the identity of an importer from the person who has filed the bill of entry and as the bill of entry showed the goods to have been cleared by the appellant for home consumption, the appellant was the importer of the goods.	Facts
The High Court also observed that if the appellant had sold the goods on high seas to Radha, it was only Radha who would be the importer and not the appellant and the very fact that the name of Radha was not reflected as the importer in the bill of entry for home consumption belied the contention of the appellant about high seas sale to Radha.	Facts
The relevant parts of observations and findings of the High Court could be usefully extracted as under Section 2(23) of the Customs Act defines import, with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, to mean bringing into India from a place outside India.	Facts
Section 2(25) defines imported goods to mean any goods brought into India from a place outside India but does not include goods which have been cleared for home consumption.	Facts
Use of the words does not include in Section 2(25) would mean that the moment goods, brought into India from a foreign country, are cleared for home consumption, they get mixed with the local goods and cease to be imported goods thereafter.	Facts
Going by the definition of the term import under Section 2(25) of the Act as to bring into India from a place outside India, and as he has imported the goods (his name being reflected in the Bill of Entry as the importer), the petitioner has rightly been held to be the importer.	Facts
In view of the expanded definition of importer in Section 2(26), while any person who imports goods from a foreign country to India would undoubtedly be an importer, the owner of the goods and a person holding himself out be an importer would also be an importer, however only during the period between the importation of the goods and the time they are cleared for home consumption, and not prior thereto or thereafter.	Facts
This period is when the goods are warehoused after importation, and are cleared from such warehouse by a person other than the person who actually imported the goods.	Facts
That limb of the definition of importer, in Section 2(26) of the Customs Act, is designed to protect the interests of the owner or the exporter where the goods have not been claimed or redeemed by the designated importer in India.	Facts
The definition cannot be used to usurp the identity of an importer from the person who filed the bill of entry.	Facts
As Section 2(26) is an inclusive definition, the person in whose name the bill of entry is filed does not cease to be the importer.	Facts
In other words, the person who has secured the release of the goods from the carrier, who has filed the bill of entry, and who has undertaken the work of clearance, continues to be an importer.	Facts
The bill of entry shows the goods to have been cleared for home consumption by the petitioner who is, therefore, the importer of the goods.	Facts
The person who holds himself out to be the importer of the goods must furnish proof of being the importer before the goods are cleared for home consumption.	Facts
No doubt, Section 2(26) permits any one holding himself out to be the importer between the date of importation and clearance of the goods for home consumption.	Facts
But here the petitioner, in whose name the goods have been manifested, has, by filing a Bill of Entry, already held himself out to be the importer.	Facts
As shall be detailed hereinafter, the import manifest has not been amended, the petitioner has filed the Bill of Entry for clearance of the goods for home consumption, and has held himself out to be the importer. .	Facts
It is evident, therefore, that, before its importation, it is only the person who imported the goods who would be the importer.	Facts
If, as contended by the petitioner, they had sold the goods on high seas to Radha, it is only Radha who would be the importer and not the petitioner.	Facts
The very fact that the name of Radha is not reflected as the importer in the bill of entry exbond (home consumption) belies the petitioners contention of a high sea sale by them to Radha Industries.	Facts
14.4.3.	None
The High Court, thereafter, proceeded to examine the relevance and importance of Import General Manifest required to be delivered prior to the arrival of vessel at the customs station in terms of Section 30 of the Customs Act permissibility of its amendment or supplementation under the Levy of Fee (Customs Documents) Regulations, 1970 and its contents in terms of Import Manifest (Vessels) Regulations, 1971.	Facts
The High Court observed that as per the requirements of IGM, it should have reflected the name of the last high sea sale purchaser as the importer and otherwise, the IGM would have necessitated amendment, as it is only the last purchaser of the goods on high seas who would be the importer consignee.	Facts
The High Court observed that there was no material on record to show that either the IGM contained the name of Radha as the importer consignee or that it was subsequently amended in terms of Section 30(3) of the Customs Act and hence, held that the contention of high seas sales was raised by the appellant only to avoid the goods being subjected to tax as interState sales under the CST Act.	Facts
The High Court observed and held as under The Import General Manifest contains a cargo declaration wherein, among others, the name of the importer, the importers code number, IGM number and date are required to be detailed.	Facts
It is not even the petitioners case that his name is not reflected as the importer in the Import General Manifest.	Facts
If, as is now contended by him, the goods had been sold on the high seas, the Import General Manifest should have reflected the name of the last high sea sale purchaser as the importer.	Facts
Otherwise, the Import General Manifest would have necessitated amendment as it is only the last purchaser of the goods on high seas who would be the importer consignee.	Facts
There is no material on record to show that either the Import General Manifest contained the name of Radha as the importer consignee or that it was subsequently amended in terms of Section 30(3) of the Customs Act.	Facts
It is evident, therefore, that the contention of high seas sales has been raised by the petitioner only to avoid the goods being subjected to tax as inter state sales under the CST Act.	Facts
14.4.4.	None
After having found that the appellant was rightly held to be the importer of goods and such a conclusion was fortified by the contents of IGM, the High Court proceeded to further examine the effect of filing of bill of entry for home consumption by the appellant.	Facts
In this regard, the High Court examined the scope and requirements of the provisions contained in the Customs Act relating to entry of goods on importation clearance of goods for home consumption as also the requirements of the Bill of Entry (Electronic Declaration) Regulations, 1995.	Facts
The High Court further examined the contents of one of the bills of entry, as placed on the record of W.P. No. 6258 of 2013 where the second party (first buyer) was Purbanchal Lumbers Pvt. Ltd. and found that the said bill of entry made no reference to Radha and held that this omission made it clear that the goods were imported by the appellant on a high seas sale effected in its favour by the said first buyer.	Facts
The High Court, accordingly, concluded that the appellant had imported the goods and the sale of goods by the appellant to Radha could have only been effected after the goods had been cleared for home consumption.	Facts
The High Court, inter alia, observed and held as under It is evident, from the said Bill of Entry, that the goods were imported by the petitioner, and were cleared from customs with the assistance of the customs house agent M s.Srinivasa Transports.	Facts
If, as contended by the petitioner, the goods were sold by them to M s.Radha Industries on high seas, and before the goods entered the customs port, the name of the importer should have been shown as Radha Industries, and not as Sanjiv Kumar Agarwal, Vellanki Frameworks.	Facts
The fact that the name of the importer is shown as Sanjiv Kumar Agarwal, Vellanki Frameworks, and the Bill of Entry makes no reference to Radha Industries, goes to show that the goods were imported by the petitioner on a high sea sale effected in their favour by Purbanchal Lumbers Private Limited it is they who had imported the goods and sale of goods by them to Radha Industries could only have been effected after the goods had been cleared for home consumption.	Facts
14.4.5.	None
The High Court also examined the submissions that the appellant acted merely as an agent of the endbuyer and rejected the same, again with reference to the contents of the bill of entry where the name of appellant was shown as the importer and there was no reference to Radha.	Facts
The High Court also observed that customs duty could be assessed only on the importer of goods and not on his agent and found that the appellant alone was assessed to customs duty and not Radha.	Facts
In view of the given facts, the High Court reiterated its findings that the sale of goods by appellant to Radha was not a high seas sale and such a sale could have been effected only after the appellant was assessed to customs duty and had cleared the goods for home consumption.	Facts
The High Court observed and held, inter alia, as follows If, as contended by him, the petitioner was merely acting as an agent, the bill of entry would have reflected the name of the importer as M s.Radha Industries and the petitioner as their agent instead of M s. Srinivasa Traders as the clearing house agent and the petitioners name would have been recorded in the bill of entry, along with Purbanchal Lumbers Private Limited.	Facts
The very fact that the name of the importer is shown as Sanjiv Kumar Agarwal, Vellanki Frameworks, and the Bill of Entry makes no reference to Radha Industries, shows that the goods were imported by the petitioner, on the goods being sold to them on high seas by Purbanchal Lumbers Private Limited.	Facts
Sale of goods by them to Radha Industries could only have been effected after the goods had been cleared for home consumption.	Facts
Transfer of title to the goods on high seas would make the person, who purchased the goods on high seas, the importer of the goods and it is he who would be liable to be assessed to customs duty.	Facts
As the Bill of Entry records the petitioners name as the importer, and as it is not in dispute that it was he who was assessed to customs duty, and not Radha, it is evident that the sale of goods by the petitioner to Radha is not a high seas sale.	Facts
Such a sale could only have been effected after the petitioner was assessed to customs duty, and he had cleared the goods for home consumption.	Facts
14.4.6.	None
With reference to a Division Bench decision of Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation of India Ltd. v. State of Andhra Pradesh 1999 (106) ELT 23, an argument was advanced on behalf of the appellant that the name on the bill of entry was irrelevant because the name of the importer alone would be recorded in it, even if the transfer of title deeds was effected before filing of the bill of entry and assessment of duty.	Facts
The High Court took note of the principal issue involved in the said case of Minerals and Metals and held that the question, as to whether name on the bill of entry was relevant or not and as to whether the name of importer alone would be recorded therein, even if transfer by title deed was effected before filing of bill of entry and assessment of duty, did not arise for consideration therein.	Facts
Therefore, the observations occurring in said decision as regards the relevance of name in the bill of entry were held to be not of a binding declaration of law.	Facts
14.5.	None
Having thus held that CTO was justified in holding that sale of goods by appellant to Radha was an interState sale liable to tax under the CST Act, the High Court took note of another submission made on behalf of the appellant that the sale in favour of Radha occasioned the movement of goods into the country.	Facts
It was contended on behalf of the appellant that the entire import of the goods was occasioned by the ultimate sale by the appellant in favour of Radha and even though the documents executed referred to the sale as a high seas sale, but when the very sale itself occasioned the movement of goods across the customs barrier, it had been a sale in the course of import.	Facts
It was also submitted on behalf of the appellant that though the case was not presented in this light before the assessing officer, it being a pure question of law, could be considered by the High Court.	Facts
Per contra, it was submitted on behalf of the department that such submissions were inconsistent and contrary to the earlier stand of the appellant that it had been a high seas sale.	Facts
It was also submitted, again with reference to bill of entry, that the name of Radha was not reflected there as the last buyer.	Facts
14.5.1.	None
The High Court observed that it was for the first time such a plea was taken in the writ proceedings that the sale of goods to Radha occasioned the import of goods and the writ Court would be disinclined to entertain this plea, being based on certain clauses of agreements and being a mixed question of facts and law.	Facts
This apart, the High Court also observed that even otherwise, such a submission was belied by the fact that the name of the appellant, and not Radha, was reflected in the bill of entry as the importer of the goods.	Facts
14.6.	None
Another argument advanced on behalf of the appellant before the High Court had been that the principles enunciated in the said Division Bench decision of Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of Minerals and Metals and another decision of Madras High Court got tacit approval in the decision of this Court in the case of Hotel Ashoka (Indian Tourist Development Corporation Ltd.).	Facts
v. Assistant Commissioner of Commercial Taxes and Anr.	Facts
(2012) 3 SCC 204 .	Facts
The High Court distinguished the said decision of this Court while pointing out that it related to the goods sold at dutyfree shops which are beyond the customs frontier of India the goods sold thereat must be said to have been sold before having crossed the customs frontiers of India and consequently, the sale of goods thereat is in the course of import. 14.7.	Facts
Having thus held that the sale in question was an interState sale, the High Court took note of the alternative prayer made on behalf of the appellant for an opportunity to submit CForms from the buyers and granted this prayer with reference to Rule 12(7) of the Central Sales Tax (Registration and Turnover) Rules, 1957.	Facts
14.8.	None
With the aforesaid findings and liberty, the High Court proceeded to reject the challenge to the impugned assessment orders while granting three months time to the appellant to produce the prescribed CForms.	Facts
The High Court also commented on the doubts expressed by the assessing officer about existence of some of the dealers and observed that the appellant would be able to procure CForms only if such dealers were in existence.	Facts
The High Court concluded on the writ petitions in the following words For the reasons aforementioned, the impugned assessment orders do not necessitate interference, and the challenge thereto by the petitioner is rejected.	Facts
The petitioner is, however, granted three months time from today to produce the prescribed C Forms.	Facts
While the assessing authority has expressed his doubts regarding the very existence of some of the dealers outside the State, it is not necessary for us to delve on this aspect any further, as it is only if such dealers are in existence would the petitioner be able to procure CForms from them, and furnish it to the assessing authority.	Facts
While the prescribed concessional rate of tax, payable by the petitioner on the interstate sale of goods, shall be paid by them forthwith, the respondents shall not take coercive steps for recovery of the balance tax for a period of three months from today.	Facts
In case the petitioner produces CForms within the aforesaid three month period, they shall be extended the benefit of concessional rate of tax to the extent for which CForms are produced.	Facts
It is made clear that, in case the petitioner fails to submit the CForms within three months from today, it is open to the respondents thereafter to proceed and recover the balance tax due from them in accordance with law.	Facts
Subject to the above observations, both the Writ Petitions fail and are, accordingly, dismissed.	Facts
The miscellaneous petitions pending, if any, shall also stand automatically dismissed.	Facts
However, in the circumstances, without costs.	Facts
Rival Submissions and the issues involved The aforesaid decision of the High Court is questioned in these appeals.	None
We may now summarize the principal submissions made on behalf of the parties.	None
Assailing the impugned judgment, learned counsel for the appellant has made elaborate reference to the quadripartite agreement dated 21.11.2005 involving four parties and stipulating that Indus would raise the purchase order on the foreign exporter i.e., WBT and thereafter, when the goods were on high seas, Indus would transfer the documents of title (bill of lading) in favour of the appellant and the appellant would then transfer the documents of title to the goods in favour of Radha before the goods cross the customs frontiers of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel would submit that the intention behind entering into a quadripartite agreement was that Indus enjoyed a 180 day line of credit with WBT while the appellant had the requisite infrastructure to undertake importation of goods but the agreement specifically identified Radha as final buyer of the goods and stipulated that the goods would move only after inspection and selection by Radha and hence, there was always a privity of contract between WBT (the seller) and Radha (the endbuyer).	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel has further submitted that as per Schedule I to the agreement, the appellant was to act as an agent of Radha and to clear the goods from customs authorities where delivery of goods was to be completed once the appellant had issued a delivery note to Radha and the responsibility of carriage of goods, after clearance, from the port to the factory premises in the State of Uttar Pradesh was that of Radha.	Arguments of Petitioner
16.1.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the aforesaid backdrop, the learned counsel for the appellant has strenuously contended that the sale in question, being in the nature of sale in the course of import, is not taxable under the CST Act that the sale in question, having not occasioned movement of goods between two States within India, is not an interState sale under Section 3(a) of the CST Act and rather, this sale has occasioned movement of goods from outside India into India and that the department had been unjustified and wrong in ignoring the second high seas sale agreement between the appellant and Radha and by treating the appellant as owner of goods only for having filed the bill of entry and having raised the debit note.	Arguments of Petitioner
16.2.	Arguments of Petitioner
Elaborating on the submissions, learned counsel has referred to Article 286 of the Constitution of India while pointing out that it prohibits the State Government from imposing sales tax on sales made in the course of import or export and the Parliament could formulate the principles to determine as to when a sale takes place in the course of import or export.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel has referred to Section 5 of the CST Act, laying down as to when a sale is treated to have taken place in the course of import or export and has referred to subsection (2) thereof, providing that sale of goods is deemed to take place in the course of import of the goods into the territory of India only if the sale occasions such import or is effected by a transfer of document of title to the goods before they have crossed the customs frontiers of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel has also referred to Section 3 of the CST Act and the decision of this Court in the case of State of Maharashtra v. Embee Corporation, Bombay (1997) 7 SCC 190 to submit that the terms sale occasioning movement of goods and sale occasioning import of goods carry the same meaning insofar as Sections 3 and 5 of the CST Act are concerned and that the words sale of goods in Section 3 and the words contract of sale in Section 4(2) of the CST Act have been assigned the same meaning, which is wider to the meaning of sale in the general law.	Arguments of Petitioner
While also relying on the decision of this Court in Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd., Bombay v. S.R.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sarkar and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
AIR 1961 SC 65 , the learned counsel has submitted that in both the situations where sale occasions movement of goods and sale occasions import of goods, the contract of sale or a covenant of a contract of sale triggers the movement from either one State to another or from outside India into India.	Arguments of Petitioner
16.3.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the appellant has contended that to qualify under Section 5(2) of the CST Act, the essential ingredients of high sea sales would be of the transfer of document of title and transfer of goods to be made while the goods are on high seas.	Arguments of Petitioner
With reference to the definition of term crossing the customs frontiers of India, as occurring in Section 2(ab) of the CST Act, learned counsel has pointed out that this term means crossing the limits of the area of customs station in which imported goods or exported goods are ordinarily kept before clearance by customs authorities.	Arguments of Petitioner
Then, with reference to Section 2(4) of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930(Hereinafter referred to as the Sale of Goods Act.)	Arguments of Petitioner
and the decisions of this Court in J.V. Gokal Co. (Private) Ltd. v. Assistant Collector of SalesTax (Inspection) and Ors (1960) 2	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 852 and Minerals Metals Trading Corporation of India Ltd. v. Sales Tax Officer and Ors (1998) 7 SCC 19 (Hereinafter this case of Minerals Metals has also been referred to as Orissa case, in order to maintain the distinction with the other decision of Andhra Pradesh High Court carrying the same first name, which was referred to by the High Court in the impugned judgment.)	Arguments of Petitioner
, learned counsel has submitted that the transfer of bill of lading signifies transfer of title in the goods.	Arguments of Petitioner
As regards transfer before the goods crossing customs frontiers of India, the learned counsel has referred to the decision of this Court in Hotel Ashoka (supra) to submit that when the goods are kept in the bonded warehouse, they cannot be said to have crossed the customs frontiers of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
16.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
As regards the facts of the case, learned counsel would submit that the endorsement by appellant on the bill of lading in favour of Radha was made on 12.12.2005 when the goods were on the high seas and had not even reached the customs frontiers of India and then, the bill of entry for home consumption was filed on 28.12.2005.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, according to the learned counsel, the title to the goods in question was transferred in favour of Radha before the goods crossed the customs frontiers of India and, accordingly, the transaction between the petitioner and Radha had been a sale in the course of import not liable to be taxed under the CST Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
16.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel has also contended that the transaction in question is sought to be taxed as interState sale within the ambit of Section 3(a) of the CST Act, for being not covered under Section 5(2) of the CST Act but, for a transaction to be covered under Section 3(a) of the CST Act, the agreement of sale must trigger the movement of goods and the goods must move between one State to another within India as a consequence of such agreement.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel has referred to the decision of this Court in State of TravancoreCochin and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Shanmugha Vilas Cashewnut Factory, Quilon AIR 1953	Arguments of Petitioner
SC 333 and has strenuously argued that in the present case, the goods moved into India from outside as a result of the quadripartite agreement that the interState movement within India was only a part of one whole integrated transaction of sale that when a part of integrated import transaction involves movement of goods within India, the department cannot selectively question only one part of the transaction and that the quadripartite agreement, clearly establishing the privity amongst the parties involved, could not have been ignored in part and the Indian leg of the transaction could not have been dissected in order to be taxed.	Arguments of Petitioner
16.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
In another leg of principal submissions, learned counsel has contended that the High Court has fallen in error in using the bill of entry to determine the ownership of goods.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel would submit that the ownership of goods could only be determined under the Sale of Goods Act read with the Indian Contract Act that the customs duty is collected from the person having possession of goods at the time of importation, who need not be the owner of good, as appearing from the definition of importer under the Customs Act, which includes owner and any other person that in distinction to the customs duty, sales tax is a tax on the transaction of sales or purchase when ownership of goods is transferred and the questions as to when does the sale take place and who is the owner of goods would be determined only under the Sale of Goods Act, and not under the Customs Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
With a strong reliance on the decision of this Court in the case of Union of India and Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Sampat Raj Dugar and Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1992) 2 SCC 66 , learned counsel has submitted that the definition of importer in the Customs Act only indicates the person who is in possession of goods at the time of filing of bill of entry but does not indicate the title to the goods.	Arguments of Petitioner
16.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
As regards raising of debit note, learned counsel has argued that the respondent has tried to rely upon a subsequent debit note raised by the appellant on Radha to conclude that the sale took place after the goods crossed the customs frontiers of India but, as per the definition contained in Section 2(g) of the CST Act, sale includes transfer of property in goods for deferred payment and therefore, issuance of debit note on a later date is of no effect on the passing of title of goods, which had taken place before the goods crossed the customs frontiers of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, endorsement of the bill of lading and its date are the only factors relevant for determination as to whether the sale in question is covered by Section 5(2) of the CST Act or not and all other factors are irrelevant for determining the core issue regarding point of sale and the High Court has been in error in proceeding on irrelevant considerations while ignoring the relevant aspects and the law applicable to the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
16.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the alternative part, learned counsel has contended that the High Court, despite indicating its disinclination to reappreciate the evidence in writ jurisdiction, has proceeded to render findings on fact rather than relegating the matter to the appellate authority.	Arguments of Petitioner
While relying on the decision in the case of Star Paper Mills Ltd. v. Union of India and Ors. 1995 Supp (4) SCC 674, the learned counsel would submit that the appellant may be allowed to contest the matter in the statutory appeal, particularly in view of the facts involved.	Arguments of Petitioner
17.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent has contended that on a conjoint reading of the agreements sought to be relied upon by the appellant and the appellants dealing with the goods before the customs frontier at Visakhapatnam, make it clear that the alleged agency agreement between the appellant and Radha was a sham and nominal document, drawn only for the purpose of evasion of tax liability under the CST Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel would submit that the alleged agency agreement played no role at all in the import transaction and it was the appellant alone who was the real importer and was rightly treated so.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel would further submit that the documents presented by the appellant before the customs frontier at Visakhapatnam could not have shown Radha as the real importer since the high seas sale agreement designated appellant as the buyer and the customs frontier at Visakhapatnam was not called upon to even consider the agency agreement as the basis for the bill of entry.	Arguments of Respondent
17.1.	None
Learned counsel for the respondent has emphatically argued that in the given set of facts and circumstances, while reading the agreements in question and the real intent behind them, coupled with filing of bill of entry by the appellant, the conclusion drawn by the High Court that the appellant alone was the importer remains unexceptionable.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel would also submit that the import was complete only by and through the appellant and until completion of importation, Radha was nowhere in picture and the monetary transactions between the appellant and Radha are proof enough of the transaction of sale between them after the goods had crossed the customs frontiers of India.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words, according to the learned counsel, delivery of goods to Radha by the appellant and their movement from Visakhapatnam (in the State of Andhra Pradesh) on way to Lucknow (in the State of Uttar Pradesh) constituted an interState sale and hence, the appellant has rightly been held liable to tax for this interState sale.	Arguments of Respondent
17.2.	None
While distinguishing the decisions cited on behalf of the appellant, learned counsel for the respondent has argued that the relied upon decisions, essentially relating to the questions as to what triggered an import and when did the title pass on to an importer, are not relevant for the purpose of deciding as to who has been the importer in the present case.	Arguments of Respondent
This question, according to the learned counsel, has rightly been examined by the Assessing Officer with reference to the nature of dealings of the parties and such conclusions have rightly been endorsed by the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
We have heard learned counsel for the parties at length and have scanned the record with reference to the law applicable.	None
In summation of what has been noticed hereinabove, it is apparent that while asserting that the sales in question took place in the course of the import and do qualify for exemption under Section 5(2) of the CST Act, the main plank of the case of the appellant is that in accordance with the quadripartite agreements, the appellant had transferred the goods on high seas (before goods had crossed the customs frontiers of India) by endorsing the bills of lading in favour of the respective endbuyers and that had completed the sale.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, the mainstay of the department is that the appellant alone cleared the goods from the customs area after filing the respective bills of entry and thereafter raised debit notes showing sales to the endbuyers and such sales having taken place only after the goods crossing the customs frontiers of India and the endbuyers being situated outside the State of Andhra Pradesh to whom the goods were dispatched, the sales in question had only been interState sales.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellants counter to such a stand of the department is that filing of bill of entry and assessment to customs duty in accordance with the Customs Act are not the factors determinative of the ownership of goods because the importer could be the owner or even any other person and merely because the appellant filed the bills of entry, the legal consequences of transfer of bill of lading when the goods were on high seas cannot be ignored.	Arguments of Petitioner
19.1.	None
Therefore, the principal issue in these appeals is as to whether the sales in question took place in the course of the import of the goods into the territory of India and qualify for exemption under Section 5(2) of the CST Act?	Issue
Sale in the course of import Connotations For determination of the principal issue and variety of questions arising in this matter, at the outset, a brief insight into the constitutional and statutory provisions relating to the sale in the course of import shall be apposite.	None
20.1.	None
Under Article 286 of the Constitution of India, restrictions have been placed on the power of the State as to imposition of tax on the specified category of sales and purchases.	None
At the relevant point of time, Clauses (1) and (2) of Article 286 read as under (This Article 286 has undergone a few amendments later which need not be referred herein.)	None
Restrictions as to imposition of tax on the sale or purchase of goods.	None
(1) No law of a State shall impose, or authorize the imposition of, a tax on the sale or purchase of goods where such sale or purchase takes place (a) outside the State or (b) in the course of the import of the goods into, or export of the goods out of, the territory of India.	None
Parliament may by law formulate principles for determining when a sale or purchase of goods takes place in any of the ways mentioned in clause (1).	None
20.2.	None
In exercise of its powers under Clause (2) of Article 286, the Parliament has enacted the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956.	None
In Section 3, thereof, it is laid down that a sale or purchase of goods shall be deemed to take place in the course of interState trade or commerce if the sale or purchase  (a) occasions the movement of goods from one State to another or (b) is effected by a transfer of documents of title to the goods during their movement from one State to another.	None
Section 3 with its Explanation 1 and Explanation 2 could also be usefully extracted as under(Explanation 3 inserted to this Section 3 by Act 28 of 2016 is not relevant for the present purpose.)	None
When is a sale or purchase of goods said to take place in the course of interState trade or commerce.	None
A sale or purchase of goods shall be deemed to take place in the course of interState trade or commerce if the sale or purchase (a) occasions the movement of goods from one State to another or (b) is effected by a transfer of documents of title to the goods during their movement from one State to another.	None
Explanation 1.	None
Where goods are delivered to a carrier or other bailee for transmission, the movement of the goods shall, for the purposes of clause (b), be deemed to commence at the time of such delivery and terminate at the time when delivery is taken from such carrier or bailee.	None
Explanation 2.	None
Where the movement of goods commences and terminates in the same State it shall not be deemed to be a movement of goods from one State to another by reason merely of the fact that in the course of such movement the goods pass through the territory of any other State.	None
20.3.	None
The basic principles for determining as to when a sale or purchase of goods takes place in the course of import or export are contained in Section 5 of the CST Act.	None
As per subsection (1) of Section 5, a sale or purchase of goods shall be deemed to take place in the course of the export of the goods out of the territory of India only if the sale or purchase either occasions such export or is effected by a transfer of documents of title to the goods after the goods have crossed the customs frontiers of India.	None
Under subsection (2), a sale or purchase of goods shall be deemed to take place in the course of the import of the goods into the territory of India only if the sale or purchase either occasions such import or is effected by a transfer of documents of title to the goods before the goods have crossed the customs frontiers of India.	None
In the present case, we are only concerned with subsection (2) of Section 5 relating to the course of import and hence, may extract the relevant part of Section 5 of the CST Act as under When is a sale or purchase of goods said to take place in the course of import or export.	None
xxx.	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
A sale or purchase of goods shall be deemed to take place in the course of the import of the goods into the territory of India only if the sale or purchase either occasions such import or is effected by a transfer of documents of title to the goods before the goods have crossed the customs frontiers of India.	Reasoning
xxx	None
xxx xxx 20.4.	None
The definition meaning of the expressions crossing the customs frontiers of India and sale, as occurring at the relevant time in Clauses (ab) and (g) of Section 2 of the CST Act may also be usefully noticed as under (ab) crossing the customs frontiers of India means crossing in the limits of the area of a customs station in which imported goods or export goods are ordinarily kept before clearance by customs authorities.	Arguments of Petitioner
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this clause, customs station and customs authorities shall have the same meanings as in the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) (g) sale, with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means any transfer of property in goods by one person to another for cash or deferred payment or for any other valuable consideration, and includes, a transfer, otherwise than in pursuance of a contract, of property in any goods for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration a transfer of property in goods (whether as goods or in some other form) involved in the execution of a works contract a delivery of goods on hirepurchase or any system of payment by instalments a transfer of the right to use any goods for any purpose (whether or not for a specified period) for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration a supply of goods by any unincorporated association or body of persons to a member thereof for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration (vi) a supply, by way of or as part of any service or in any other manner whatsoever, of goods, being food or any other article for human consumption or any drink (whether or not intoxicating), where such supply or service, is for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration, but does not include a mortgage or hypothecation of or a charge or pledge on goods 20.5.	None
The expression crossing the customs frontiers of India refers to customs port and customs station, as defined in the Customs Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, we may usefully refer to the relevant definitions in Clauses (11), (12), (13) and (29) of Section 2 of the Customs Act, as applicable at the relevant time, as under (11) customs area means the area of a customs station(The words or a warehouse inserted at this place by Act 18 of 2017) and includes any area in which imported goods or export goods are ordinarily kept before clearance by Customs Authorities (12) customs port means any port appointed under clause (a) of section 7 to be a customs port and includes a place appointed under clause (aa) of that section to be an inland container depot (13) customs station means any customs port, customs airport(The words customs airport, international courier terminal, foreign post office substituted in place of customs airport at this place by Act 7 of 2017) or land customs station (29) land customs station means any place appointed under clause (b) of section 7 to be a land customs station 20.6.	None
Having regard to the submissions made and the questions raised, we may also take note of the definition of the expression document of title to goods in Section 2(4) of the Sale of Goods Act as under (4) document of title to goods includes a bill of lading, dock warrant, warehouse keepers certificate, wharfingers certificate, railway receipt, multimodal transport document, warrant or order for the delivery of goods and any other document used in the ordinary course of business as proof of the possession or control of goods, or authorizing or purporting to authorise, either by endorsement or by delivery, the possessor of the document to transfer or receive goods thereby represented The meaning, connotation, effect and operation of the said provisions related with sale in the course of import had come up for consideration in several decisions of this Court and had been the subject matter of adjudication in variegated factual setups concerning the transactions and the dealings of the parties involved.	None
Before entering into all the necessary niceties, we may usefully notice that the phrase sale in the course of import carries three essential features  (i) that there must be a sale (ii) that goods must actually be imported into the territory of India and (iii) that the sale must be part and parcel of the import.	Reasoning
A sale would become part and parcel of import if it either occasions such import or if it occurs by way of a transfer of document of title to the goods before the goods cross the customs frontiers of India.	Reasoning
Having taken note of the essential features of the phrase sale in the course of import, we may now refer to the cited decisions, to find the expositions therein and examine their applicability to the present case.	None
22.1.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in the case of J. V. Gokal Co. (supra), the petitioner company entered into two contracts on 24.03.1954 and 15.04.1954 with Government of India for selling two consignments of sugar  One of 9,500 long tons of Peruvian origin and the other of 25,000 metric tons of continental origin.	Reasoning
The petitioner placed orders with dealers in foreign countries.	Reasoning
Some weeks before the vessel carrying the goods in question arrived at the Bombay harbour i.e., when the vessels were on the high seas, the Government of India received the documents of title, including bills of lading, pertaining to the sugar purchased by them and paid the price to the petitioner.	Reasoning
After the goods reached the port, they were unloaded, taken delivery of, and cleared by the Government of India after paying the requisite customs duties.	Reasoning
For the assessment year 195455, the petitioner was assessed to sales tax where the Sales Tax Officer deducted the price of the said two sales from the petitioners turnover.	Reasoning
However, on 31.01.1958, the Assistant Collector of Sales Tax issued notice to the petitioner, proposing to review the said assessment.	Reasoning
The petitioner filed its objections contending, inter alia, that the sales had taken place in the course of import and therefore they were not liable to sales tax.	Reasoning
The first respondent rejected the contentions of the petitioner and held that sales tax was payable in respect of said two transactions.	Reasoning
The petitioner questioned the demand notice consequently issued against it by way of the petition in this Court.	Reasoning
It was contented, inter alia, that the sales in question were not liable to sales tax inasmuch as they took place in course of import of the goods into the territory of India.	Reasoning
This Court examined the questions as to what does the phrase in the course of the import of the goods into the territory of India convey and when could it be said that a sale has taken place in the course of import journey.	Reasoning
This Court referred to various decisions including the opinions expressed in the case of Shanmugha Vilas Cashew Nut Factory (supra) and said as under 9We respectfully agree with the aforesaid observations of the learned Judges.	Reasoning
The course of the import of the goods may be said to begin when the goods enter their import journey i.e. when they cross the customs barrier of the foreign country and end when they cross the customs barrier of the importing country.	Reasoning
The next question is, when can it be said that a sale takes place in the course of import journey?	Reasoning
This Court in State of TravancoreCochin v. The Bombay Co. Ltd., held that a sale which occasioned the export was a sale that took place in the course of export of the goods.	Reasoning
If A, a merchant in India, sells his goods to a merchant in London and puts through the transaction by transporting the goods by a ship to London, the said sale which occasioned the export is exempted under Art. 286(1)(b) of the Constitution from the levy of salestax.	Reasoning
The same principle applies to a converse case of goods which occasioned the import of the goods into India.	Reasoning
This Court again in State of TravancoreCochhin and Ors.	Reasoning
v. Shanmugha Vilas Cashewnut Factory extended the doctrine to a case of sale or a purchase of goods effected within the State by transfer of shipping documents while the goods were in the course of transit.	Reasoning
The decision dealt with three types of purchases viz.	Reasoning
(i) purchases made in the local marker (ii) purchases made in the neighbouring districts of an adjacent State and (iii) imports from Africa.	Reasoning
The imports from Africa consisted of two groups  one group consisted of goods that were purchased when they were on the high seas and shipped from the African ports to Cochin or Quilon we are not concerned with the other group.	Reasoning
In the said case some commission agents at Bombay arranged for the purchase on behalf of the assessee, got delivery of the shipping documents at Bombay through a bank which advanced money against the shipping documents and collected the same from the assesses at destination.	Reasoning
This Court, by a majority, held that, in respect of the purchases falling under the first group of imports, the commission agents acted merely as agents of the respondents therein and that the said purchases occasioned the import and therefore came within the exemption.	Reasoning
That was not a case where the goods were sold by an importer in India to a third party when the goods were on the high seas.	Reasoning
It was a case where a party in Cochin purchased goods which were on the high seas through his agent at Bombay and the agent paid the price through a bank against the shipping documents.	Reasoning
But the learned Judge, Patanjali Sastri, C.J., expressing the majority view, considered the scope of the exemption in all its aspects and summarized the conclusions thus p. 69	Reasoning
Our conclusion may be summed up as follows (1) Sales by export and purchases by import fall within the exemption under article 286(1)(b)	Reasoning
(2) Purchases in the State by the exporter for the purpose of export as well as sales in the State by the importer after the goods have crossed the customs barrier are not within the exemption.	Reasoning
(3) Sales in the State by the exporter or importer by transfer of shipping documents while the goods are beyond the customs barrier are within the exemption, assuming that the State power of taxation extends to such transactions.	Reasoning
Das, J., as he then was, in his dissenting judgment, agreed with Patanjali Sastri, C.J., on the third conclusion with which we are now concerned.	Reasoning
The learned Judge put forward his view at p. 94	None
thus Such sales or purchases, by delivery of shipping documents while the goods are on the high seas on their import journey were and are well recognised species of transactions done every day on a large scale in big commercial towns like Bombay and Calcutta and are indeed the necessary and concomitant incidents of foreign trade.	Reasoning
To hold that these sales or purchases do not take place in the course of import or export but are to be regarded as purely ordinary local or home transactions distinct from foreign trade, is to ignore the realities of the situation.	Reasoning
Such a construction will permit the imposition of tax by a State over and above the customs duty or export duty levied by Parliament.	Reasoning
Such double taxation on the same lot of goods will increase the price of the goods and, in the case of export, may prevent the exporters from competing in the world market and, in the case of import, will put a greater burden on the consumers.	Reasoning
This will eventually hamper and prejudicially affect our foreign trade and will bring about precisely that calamity which it is the intention and purpose of our Constitution to prevent.	Reasoning
The learned Judge also in his judgment elaborately considered the great hardship that would be caused to an Indian importer if he was not permitted to sell the goods which were on the high seas by delivery of shipping documents against payment.	Reasoning
Though that case dealt with a different situation, we agree with the learned Judges observations that an importer can, if he receives the shipping documents, transfer the property in the goods when they are on the high seas to a third party by delivering to him shipping documents against payment and such a sale is one made in the course of import.	Reasoning
22.1.1.	None
The Court thereafter proceeded to summarize the legal position in respect of import sale in the following words The legal position visavis the importsale can be summarized thus (1) The course of import of goods starts at a point when the goods cross the customs barrier of the foreign country and ends at a point in the importing country after the goods cross the customs barrier (2) the sale which occasions the import is a sale in the course of import (3) a purchase by an importer of goods when they are on the high seas by payment against shipping documents is also a purchase in the course of import, and (4) a sale by an importer of goods, after the property in the goods passed to him either after the receipt of the documents of title against payment or otherwise, to a third party by a similar process is also a sale in the course of import.	Reasoning
22.1.2.	None
Having expounded on the legal position, the Court examined the facts of the case and held that the case fell under the fourth principle aforesaid when the petitioner, pursuant to the earlier contract with the Government, delivered the shipping documents including the bill of lading to the Government against payment when the goods were on high seas.	Reasoning
Hence, it was held that the sales in question took place in the course of imports of goods into India.	Reasoning
The Court also scrutinized the terms of contract to ascertain whether they disclosed any intention of the parties that notwithstanding the delivery of bills of lading against payment, the property in the goods should not pass to the Government and held, after scrutiny of all the terms of contract that they did not indicate any such intention.	Reasoning
Though the scrutiny and analysis of the terms of contract relates to the facts of that case only but worthwhile it would be to reproduce the same to indicate that ultimately, on the facts, the Court found that the sale took place in the course of import.	Reasoning
The Court analysed and held as follows Let us now scrutinize the terms of the contract to ascertain whether they disclose any intention of the parties that notwithstanding the delivery of the bill of lading against payment the property in the goods should not pass to the Government.	Reasoning
The circumstances under which the contracts were entered into between the parties indicate that both the parties were interested to see that property in the goods passed in the ordinary way when the shipping documents were handed over to the Government against payment.	Reasoning
The sellers had to meet their liability to the foreign companies with whom they opened letters of credit and the Government must have been anxious to get the title to the goods so that the sellers might not divert the goods towards their other commitments or to other buyers for more tempting prices.	Reasoning
Under the contract every safeguard for securing the goods of agreed specifications was provided for in the earlier clauses and therefore there was no reason for postponing the passing of the property in the goods to the buyer till the goods were actually delivered in the port.	Reasoning
The sellers on their side would have been anxious that the property should pass when the goods were on the high seas, for otherwise they would be compelled to pay salestax.	Reasoning
Nor are the clauses of the contracts relied upon by the respondents inconsistent with the property in the goods passing in accordance with the mercantile usage. .	Reasoning
Apart from the terms of the contract, reliance is also placed by the learned counsel for the respondents on the following circumstances (i) the seller himself chartered the ship and (ii) the licence issued by the Government was made nontransferable.	Reasoning
We do not see how these two facts indicate the contrary intention.	Reasoning
If the seller himself chartered a steamer, when the goods he purchased were loaded in the ship, the property in the goods passed to him and therefore he was in a position to sell the same to the Government.	Reasoning
The fact that the licence was nontransferable has no relation to the property in the goods passing to the Government. .	Reasoning
For all the foregoing reasons we hold that the property in the goods passed to the Government of India when the shipping documents were delivered to them against payment.	Reasoning
It follows that the sale of the goods by the petitioner to the Government of India took place when the goods were on the high seas.	Reasoning
That being so, the sales in question must be held to have taken place in the course of the import into India and therefore they would be exempted from sales tax under Art. 286(1)(b) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
22.2.	Arguments of Petitioner
It does not appear necessary to dilate further on the decision in the case of Shanmugha Vilas Cashew Nut Factory (supra) which had been, as noticed, considered in detail in the case of J.V. Gokal Co. (supra).	None
However, another decision cited on behalf of the appellant and relating to multiple transactions involving import, being the Orissa case of Minerals Metals (supra), need to be noticed.	None
The fact situation in that case had been that the appellant, a Government of India undertaking, was functioning as a canalising agent for import and export of minerals and metals.	Reasoning
On 31.03.1991, Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) requested appellant to register import of 15,000 MT of tin mill black plate coils.	None
On 14.07.1991, SAIL opened a letter of credit directly in favour of the exporter, M s. Samsung Co. Ltd., Seoul, South Korea.	None
The consignee therein was shown as SAIL.	None
On 02.08.1991, the appellant placed a purchase order with the exporter for and on behalf of SAIL.	None
On 16.08.1991, the appellant wrote to SAIL enclosing a copy of its purchase order and stating that they shall arrange delivery on high seas by endorsement and transfer of shipping documents after the documents have been paid by the banker.	None
On 23.10.1991, the appellant sent to SAIL its invoice, adjusting the amount that had already been paid by SAIL through its bankers.	None
On 28.10.1991, the appellant wrote to SAIL that it had decided to make a high seas sale of the said coils to SAIL.	None
Accordingly, the documents, including the original bill of lading, with due endorsement, were sent to SAIL to get the said coils cleared.	None
On the same day, the appellant wrote to Assistant Collector of Customs, Paradeep Port, Cuttack that the said coils had been imported by the appellant and had been sold to SAIL on high seas basis and SAIL would process the bill of entry and pay the customs duty.	None
The vessel arrived at Paradeep Port on 11.11.1991.	None
Then, on 18.11.1991, the bill of entry in respect of the said coils was submitted and processed by SAIL.	None
However, on 31.12.1994, the Sales Tax Officer levied sales tax on the aforesaid sale while rejecting the case of the appellant that no sales tax was payable, this being a sale in the course of import covered by Section 5(2) of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956.	None
The Sales Tax Officer held that there had been two sales, one between the exporter and the appellant and the other between the appellant and SAIL and that the sale to SAIL had not occasioned the import.	None
There had been another sale made by the appellant to Paradeep Phosphates Ltd., the facts whereof were similar.	None
The appellants challenge to the levy of sales tax on the aforesaid sales failed in the High Court and hence, the matter was before this Court.	None
22.2.1.	None
After taking note of the relevant constitutional and statutory provisions as also the decision in J.V. Gokal Co. (supra), this Court said thus The judgment states that it is well settled in the commercial world that a bill of lading represents the goods and the transfer of it operates as the transfer of goods.	None
The delivery of the bill of lading while the goods are afloat is equivalent to the delivery of the goods themselves.	None
22.2.2.	None
The Court examined the facts of the case and held the sales in question to be those in the course of import in the following words The facts aforestated, based upon documents, show that the bill of lading had been endorsed in favour of SAIL while the consignment of the said coils was still upon the high seas.	None
The sale, therefore, was a sale in the course of the import of the said coils into the territory of India it was effected by transfer of the documents to the said coils before they had crossed the limits of the customs station at Paradeep Port.	None
The position would be the same in respect of the goods sold to Paradeep Phosphates Ltd. 22.3.	None
The appellants have cited the decision in the case of Embee Corporation (supra) to submit that the terms sale occasioning movement of goods and sale occasioning import of goods in Sections 3 and 5 of the CST Act carry the same meaning and that the use of words sale of goods in Section 3 of the CST Act and the words contract of sale in Section 4(2) of the Sales Tax Act were assigned the same meaning, which is much wider than the meaning of sale in general law.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the said case, this Court examined the definition of sale as existing at the relevant time in Section 2(g) of the CST Act and held as under On perusal of the aforesaid provisions of the Act, the question that arises for consideration herein is, what meaning should be given to the expression sale occasions import.	None
It is almost settled by numerous decisions of the Supreme Court that the expression sale occasions import is to be interpreted in the same manner in which the expression occasions the movement of goods occurring in Section 3(a) of the Act has received interpretation.	None
In other words, the expression sale occasions import has to be given the same meaning which the expression occasions the movement of goods has received by the Courts.	None
In the light of aforesaid settled legal position emerging from the Constitution Bench decisions, we will now examine the meaning of sale as defined in the Act.	None
Section 2(g) of the Act defines sale thus 2(g) sale, with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means any transfer of property in goods by one person to another for cash or for deferred payment or for any other valuable consideration, and includes a transfer of goods on the hirepurchase or other system of payment by installments, but does not include a mortgage or hypothecation of or a charge or pledge on goods The above definition of sale in the Act shows that the word sale has been given a very wide meaning so as to include not only the sale of goods, but also the transactions, namely, a transfer of goods on hirepurchase system.	None
Further, the use of words sale of goods in Section 3 of the Act and the words contract of sale occurring in Section 4(2) of the Act have been assigned the same meaning which is wider than the meaning of sale in the general law.	None
In such a situation the word sale defined in Section 2(g) of the Act and employed in Section 3 and other sections of the Act would embrace not only completed contract, but also the contract of sale or agreement of sale if such contract of sale or agreement of sale provides for movement of goods or movement of goods is incident of the contract of sale.	None
This matter may be examined from another angle.	None
An agreement to transfer goods to the buyer for a price is an important element of sale and the same is also borne out from Section 4 of Sale of Goods Act.	None
If Section 4 of the Sale of Goods Act is read along with Sections 3 and 4 of the Act, it would mean an agreement to sell would also be a sale within the meaning of sale provided such agreement of sale stipulates for transfer or movement of goods or movement of goods is incident of the contract of sale and in that case, such movement of goods would be deemed to be occasioned by the sale.	None
It is immaterial that actual sale does not take place at that time of movement of goods and takes place later on.	None
This interpretation of Section 3(a) of the Act if applied to subsection (2) of Section 5 of the Act, would mean that if an agreement for sale stipulates import of goods or import of goods is incident of contract of sale and goods have entered the import stream, such import would fall within the expression sale occasions import.	None
In the present case, the import of Carbamite is direct result of the contract of sale and as such it can be safely held in the present case that sale has occasioned the import.	None
22.3.1.	None
In the said case of Embee Corporation, the respondent assessee, who was engaged in the business of buying and selling chemical, replied to the invitation of tender of Director General of Supplies and Disposal (DGSD) for the supply of Carbamite.	None
The tender of the respondent was accepted by DGSD with a few conditions including the one that the contracted material shall be inspected by the Chief Inspector, C.I.M.E., Kirkee, Pune at Bombay Port and the General Manager, Cordite Factory, Aruvankadu was mentioned as the indentor.	None
The respondent mentioned the name of the supplier from Germany from whom the materials were to be imported and for which, import recommendation certificate was required.	None
The required import recommendation certificate was issued whereupon the authority concerned issued the requisite licence with the condition, inter alia, that the goods imported shall be utilised in the manner stipulated in DGSDs letter and the imported materials shall not be utilised or disposed of in any other manner.	None
The DGSD also furnished the necessary enduse certificate.	None
In the bill of lading, the name of respondent was shown as a party to be notified and the General Manager, Cordite Factory Aruvankadu was described as the consignee of Carbamite.	None
After the consignment arrived, the same was forwarded to the consignee so named in the contract.	None
Once the goods were supplied to DGSD, the respondent claimed exemption from levy of sales tax on the ground that the supply under the contract was a sale in the course of import of goods into India.	None
The plea of the respondent was rejected by the department and the Tribunal.	None
The High Court, however, held that there were two sales One between the respondent and DGSD and the other between the foreign supplier and the respondent and that the sale had occasioned the import of material, liable for exemption from sales tax under the CST Act.	None
In the appeal, this Court while dismissing the appeal of the State, was of the view that while interpreting the expression sale occasions import occurring in Section 5(2) of the Act, it was not necessary that a completed sale should precede the import.	None
22.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the case of Tata Iron and Steel Co. (supra), the petitioner was engaged in the business of manufacturing and selling iron and steel goods and had its factory at Jamshedpur in the State of Bihar and Head Sales office at Calcutta in the State of West Bengal.	Reasoning
The petitioner was registered as dealer under the Bihar Sales Tax Act as also under the Central Sales Tax Act in the State of West Bengal.	Reasoning
For the period of assessment 01.07.1957 to 31.03.1958, the petitioner submitted its return of taxable sales to the Commercial Tax Officer, Lyons Range, Calcutta, disclosing the gross taxable turnover in respect of sales liable to Central Sales Tax in the State of West Bengal.	Reasoning
The said Commercial Tax Officer directed the petitioner to submit a statement of sales from Jamshedpur for the period under assessment, documents relating to which were transferred in West Bengal or of any other sales that may have taken place in West Bengal under Section 3(b) of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956.	Reasoning
The petitioner, by its letter dated 30.09.1959, informed the Tax Officer that the requisition for production of statement of sales made from Jamshedpur in the course of interState trade or commerce was without jurisdiction while contending that all the sales from Jamshedpur were of the type mentioned in Section 3(a) of the Central Sales Tax Act and at the same time, some of them also fell within the category mentioned in Section 3(b) of the Act that even if the sales were of the type mentioned in Section 3(b) of the Act, the appropriate State of the place where the sales take place or are effected alone had jurisdiction to assess such sales to Central sales tax and that in respect of interState sales from Jamshedpur, the situs of the sale was always the State of Bihar as the goods were in Bihar either at the time of the contract of sale or at the time of appropriation to the contract.	Reasoning
However, the Tax Officer proceeded to make best judgment assessment on a gross turnover while including the disputed sales too which were accounted for in the return filed with the Sales Tax Officer, Jamshedpur.	Reasoning
Hence, in the said case, the petitioner Company felt aggrieved of the proposition of the Tax Officer at Calcutta to recover Central Sales Tax in respect of the sales which were included in the assessment proceedings before the Bihar Sales Tax Authorities.	Reasoning
In the given backdrop, this Court expounded on the scope of Section 3 of the CST Act, inter alia, in the following In our view, therefore, within clause (b) of section 3 are included sales in which property in the goods passes during the movement of the goods from one State to another by transfer of documents of title thereto clause (a) of Section 3 covers sales, other than those included in clause (b), in which the movement of goods from one State to another is the result of a covenant or incident of the contract of sale, and property in the goods passes in either State This Court pointed out the error on the part of the Tax Officer at Calcutta and held as under The Commercial Tax Officer has taxed all the sales effected by the company under Section 3, clause (b), on the view that sales in which the documents of title were handed over in Calcutta were taxable in the State of West Bengal.	Reasoning
The assessment is made on two assumptions, (1) that all the sales effected in favour of West Bengal parties satisfied the conditions prescribed by Section 3(b), and (2) that the place where the documents are delivered by the company through its Head Sales Office to the purchaser is the place where the sale is effected.	Reasoning
Neither of these assumptions is correct.	Reasoning
The Commercial Tax Officer had, in our judgment, to ascertain before he could order payment of tax under the Central Sales Tax Act, whether on the materials he was satisfied, (a) that the goods at the time of transfer of documents of title were in movement from the State of Bihar to the State of West Bengal, (b) that the place where the sale was effected was under Section 4, clause (2), within the State of West Bengal.	Reasoning
The Commercial Tax Officer has, in our view, failed to apply the correct tests and has made assumptions which are not warranted and on a true interpretation of the provisions of the Central Sales Tax Act, the order of assessment discloses an error apparent on its face and a writ of certiorari must issue quashing the assessment.	Reasoning
It will be for the Commercial Tax Officer of West Bengal to reassess the company in respect of transactions of sale which are properly taxable within the State of West Bengal by the application of the test which we have already set out.	Reasoning
22.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the appellant has also attempted to rely upon the decision in the case of Hotel Ashoka (supra) which was rendered in the fact situation where the goods were kept in the bonded warehouse and were made available in the dutyfree shops for sale.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court opined that since the goods were supplied to the dutyfree shops situated at the International Airport, Bengaluru for sale, it cannot be said that the said goods had crossed the customs frontiers of India.	None
The Court finally answered the claim of the appellants therein on the finding that the liquor, cigarettes, perfumes and food articles were sold at the dutyfree shops at the International Airport, Bengaluru, for which no tax was payable by the appellants as the goods sold at the dutyfree shops were sold directly to the passengers and even the delivery of goods took place at the dutyfree shops before importing the goods or before the goods had crossed the customs frontiers of India.	None
The issue considered in the said decision, therefore, was as to whether the sale at the dutyfree shops situated at the Bengaluru International Airport would attract levy of sales tax.	None
Before proceeding further, we may cull out the relevant attributes of the decisions aforesaid visvis the questions involved in the present case.	None
23.1.	None
The basic question in the case of Hotel Ashoka (supra) was as to whether the sales at dutyfree shops would attract levy of sales tax.	Reasoning
As noticed earlier, the definition of customs station clearly refers to customs airport as defined in Section 2(10) of the Customs Act.	Reasoning
As the dutyfree shop is situated in airport area, the sale of goods at the dutyfree shop was deemed to have taken place in the course of import of the goods into the territory of India and before the goods crossing customs frontiers of India.	Reasoning
In the present case, the appellant alleges that the sale took place on high seas before goods had crossed customs frontiers of India, whereas the department contends that the sale in question took place after the appellant had filed the bill of entry for home consumption and the goods were taken out of the bonded warehouse.	Reasoning
It is but apparent that the decision in Hotel Ashoka (supra), relating to the sale of goods at dutyfree shops, has no relevance whatsoever to the present case.	Reasoning
The decision in Tata Iron and Steel Co. (supra) also related to an entirely different factual set up and the question involved therein was also different.	Reasoning
The said case related to the movement of goods from one State to another on the sale made by the petitionercompany having its works in the State of Bihar and having sales office at Calcutta in the State of West Bengal.	Reasoning
What was sought to be taxed in the State of West Bengal were the sales in which the documents of title were handed over in that State on the assumption that the sales effected in favour of West Bengal parties satisfied the conditions prescribed by Section 3(b) of CST Act and that the place where the documents were delivered by the company to the purchaser was the place where the sale was effected.	Reasoning
The enunciations in the said case as regards the operation of Section 3 of CST Act do not call for any debate but they hardly provide any guide for determination of the real questions involved in the present matter.	Reasoning
Similarly, the observations in Embee Corporation (supra) to the effect that sale occasioning movement of goods and sale occasioning import of goods respectively in Section 3 and Section 5 of CST Act carry the same meaning are not of much dispute.	Reasoning
The other observations, that for interpreting the expression sale occasions import occurring in Section 5(2) of the Act, it is not necessary that a completed sale should precede the import, shall have their implication only when the nature of dealings of the parties in the transactions in question and the effect of movement of goods are examined.	Reasoning
23.2.	None
This takes us to the decisions of this Court in Minerals Metals (Orissa case) and in J. V. Gokal Co. (supra).	None
23.2.1.	None
As noticed, in the case of Minerals Metals (Orissa case), the appellant, a Government of India undertaking, had been functioning as canalising agent for import and export of minerals.	Reasoning
It was in such a capacity that the appellant was requested by SAIL to ensure import of the goods in question and the appellant took up the proceedings accordingly.	Reasoning
The dealings of the parties made it clear that the appellant had sold the goods to SAIL on high seas by endorsement on the bill of lading.	Reasoning
The fact was duly communicated to the port authorities too.	Reasoning
Significantly, when the vessel arrived at the port of destination, the bill of entry in respect of the goods was submitted and processed by SAIL, the endbuyer.	Reasoning
This Court specifically found that bill of lading had been endorsed in favour of SAIL while the consignment of goods was still upon the high seas.	Reasoning
It had been, on such findings of fact, that the sale in question was held to be a sale in the course of import and having been effected by transfer of goods (bill of lading) before they had crossed the limits of customs frontiers of India.	Reasoning
23.2.2.	None
The law declared in J. V. Gokal Co. (supra) that bill of lading represents the goods and its transfer operates as transfer of goods and delivery of bill of lading while the goods are afloat is equivalent to the delivery of goods (as duly applied by this Court in Minerals Metals) is neither of any doubt nor could be a matter of debate.	Reasoning
However, in the said case of J. V. Gokal Co. too, on facts, it was found by the Court that the petitioner, pursuant to the earlier contract with the Government, delivered the shipping documents including the bill of lading to the Government against payment when the goods were on high seas.	Reasoning
It was also noticed that after the goods reached the port, they were unloaded, taken delivery of, and cleared by the Government (the endbuyer) after paying the requisite customs duties.	Reasoning
Significantly, in J. V. Gokal Co., the Constitution Bench went on to scrutinize the terms of contract to ascertain whether they disclosed any intention of the parties that notwithstanding delivery of bill of lading against payment, the property in goods should not pass and then, the Court found no such intention being indicated.	Reasoning
It was only after such finding on facts the Court held that the sale of goods by the petitioner to the Government took place when the goods were on the high seas and hence, the sales took place in the course of import into India.	Reasoning
23.2.3.	None
Noteworthy common features in the decisions of this Court in J. V. Gokal Co. and Orissa case of Minerals Metals (supra) had been that pursuant to a previous contract with the endbuyer, the seller concerned arranged for importation of goods and transferred the property in goods in favour of the endbuyer by endorsement of bill of lading when the goods were on high seas.	Reasoning
Coupled with these, another common feature had been that in both those cases, the goods in question, upon reaching the port of destination, were taken delivery of, and cleared by the endbuyer after paying the requisite customs duties.	Reasoning
Those had not been the cases like the present one where the seller purportedly acted as an intermediary and even after alleged transfer of bill of lading when the goods were on high seas, filed the bill of entry for home consumption at the port of destination and got the goods cleared from the customs.	Reasoning
Apart from the decisions so cited, for taking into comprehension the nuances of sale in the course of import with involvement of an intermediary, we may take note of the case of K. Gopinathan Nair and Ors.	Reasoning
v. State of Kerala (1997) 10 SSC 1 wherein, after a detailed reference to various Constitution Bench decisions, this Court has expounded on the factors to be reckoned for determining as to whether a particular sale or purchase could be deemed to have taken place in the course of import.	Reasoning
We may point out that the decision in this case of K. Gopinathan Nair had been by a 3Judge Bench of this Court where the learned Judges differed in their views on the question as to whether the transactions in question were in the course of import and, therefore, immune under Section 5(2) of the CST Act.	Reasoning
We shall refer to this decision and implication of different views therein over the factual setup of the present case in the later part of this judgment.	Reasoning
At present, we may reproduce the relevant part of the decision of majority, delineating the basic factors which are germane to determination of the question as to whether a particular sale had been in the course of import or not, as under In the light of the aforesaid settled legal position emerging from the Constitution Bench decisions of this Court the following propositions clearly get projected for deciding whether the concerned sale or purchase of goods can be deemed to take place in the course of import as laid down by Section 5(2) of the Central Sales Tax Act The sale or the purchase, as the case may be, must actually take place.	Reasoning
Such sale or purchase in India must itself occasion such import, and not vice versa i.e. import should not occasion such sale.	Reasoning
The goods must have entered the import stream when they are subjected to sale or purchase.	Reasoning
The import of the goods concerned must be effected as a direct result of the sale or purchase transaction concerned.	Reasoning
The course of import can be taken to have continued till the imported goods reach the local users only if the import has commenced through the agreement between foreign exporter and an intermediary who does not act on his own in the transaction with the foreign exporter and who in his turn does not sell as principal the imported goods to the local users.	Reasoning
There must be either a single sale which itself causes the import or is in the progress or process of import or though there may appear to be two sale transactions they are so integrally interconnected that they almost resemble one transaction so that the movement of goods from a foreign country to India can be ascribed to such a composite wellintegrated transaction consisting of two transactions dovetailing into each other.	Reasoning
A sale or purchase can be treated to be in the course of import if there is a direct privity of contract between the Indian importer and the foreign exporter and the intermediary through which such import is effected merely acts as an agent or a contractor for and on behalf of the Indian importer.	Reasoning
The transaction in substance must be such that the canalizing agency or the intermediary agency through which the imports are effected into India so as to reach the ultimate local users appears only as a mere name lender through whom it is the local importer cumlocal user who masquerades.	Reasoning
The principles aforesaid would obviously apply to the present case and if the factors so indicated are answered in favour of the appellant, it could be treated to be a matter of sale in the course of import.	Reasoning
26.	Arguments of Petitioner
In order to bring the case within the fourcorners of the factors aforesaid, the appellant has suggested existence of quadripartite agreement whereby and whereunder, the supplier (party number 1) sold the goods in question to the firstbuyer (party number 2) and delivered them at the port of shipment.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereafter, while the goods were on high seas, party number 2 transferred them to the appellant (invariably party number 3 in these transactions), by endorsing the bill of lading in favour of the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further to this and while the goods were yet on high seas, the appellant allegedly transferred them to the endbuyer (party number 4) by endorsing the bill of lading in favour of the endbuyer.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant has also suggested that though the goods were being purchased by the endbuyer and were to move only after inspection and selection by the endbuyer but the methodology of such quadripartite agreement was adopted because of the reasons that the endbuyer was not having the requisite infrastructure to undertake importation of goods whereas the appellant was having the requisite infrastructure for importation and the firstbuyer was having the credit facility with the seller.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has, therefore, been suggested that there was always a privity of contract between the seller and the endbuyer and that the appellant was to act as an agent of the endbuyer and to clear the goods from customs authorities.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant has also suggested that in each of the transactions, the process was carried out as envisaged in the quadripartite agreement and in the manner that the firstbuyer endorsed the bill of lading in favour of the appellant when the goods were on high seas and while the goods continued to be on high seas and had not crossed the customs frontiers of India, the appellant endorsed the bill of lading in favour of the endbuyer.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to these suggestions, the appellant only acted as an agent of the endbuyer while getting the goods cleared from the customs port at Visakhapatnam.	Arguments of Petitioner
26.1.	None
However, the suggestions by the appellant do not remain as innocuous and oversimplified as projected, for the reason that in each of these transactions, when the goods in question reached the port at Visakhapatnam, the appellant carried out the proceedings envisaged by the Customs Act and filed a bill of entry for warehousing and thereafter, filed another bill of entry for home consumption (exbond) and on the basis of such bills of entry, the appellant was duly assessed for customs duty.	Reasoning
Admittedly, after the goods were cleared for home consumption, they moved from the State of Andhra Pradesh to different States where the respective endbuyers were situated and the appellant raised debit notes on the endbuyers.	Reasoning
In these transactions, the goods in question, upon reaching the port of destination, were not cleared by the endbuyers after paying the requisite customs duties, as had been the fact situation in the case of J. V. Gokal Co. as also in Orissa case of Minerals Metals (supra).	Reasoning
While examining the question pertinent	Reasoning
if the appellant acted merely as an intermediary or namelender through whom the import was effected and merely acted as an agent for and on behalf of the Indian importer that is, the endbuyer, the significant facts of the present case cannot be overlooked that in relation to the goods in question, only the appellant filed the bill of entry for warehousing as also the bill of entry for home consumption and was assessed to customs duty and further that before the customs authorities, there was no suggestion that the goods in question had already been transferred, on high seas, to the alleged real importer.	Reasoning
Obviously, on the facts of the present case, the effect of dealings of the appellant before the customs authorities at Visakhapatnam with filing the bill of entry for home consumption need to be examined.	Reasoning
Filing of bill of entry for home consumption by the appellant Implication As noticed, the High Court examined the contention of the appellant that while filing the bills of entry, the appellant had acted merely as an agent of the endbuyers and rejected the same, with reference to the contents of the bills of entry where the name of appellant was shown as the importer and there was no reference to the endbuyers as also with reference to the facts that the appellant alone was the importer who filed the bills of entry for home consumption and was assessed to the customs duty and that the IGM did not contain the name of endbuyers.	Reasoning
27.1.	None
The High Court has observed that the inclusive definition of importer in Section 2(26) of the Customs Act cannot be used to usurp the identity of an importer from the person who filed the bill of entry and the person in whose name the bill of entry is filed, does not cease to be an importer.	Reasoning
In this case, the name of the appellant was reflected as importer in the Import General Manifest of the vessel s that brought the goods in question to the port at Visakhapatnam.	Reasoning
The High Court has meticulously examined the entire process relating to the arrival of goods as cargo in a vessel and filing of IGM as also the contents of the bill of entry and has pointed out that the cargo declaration form, an essential part of IGM, was required to carry, amongst others, the particulars of bill of lading and the name of consignee importer.	Reasoning
After finding that the name of the appellant was reflected as importer in IGM, the High Court has observed that if the alleged second high seas sale had taken place, the IGM would have reflected the name of the last high seas sale purchaser as the importer and if there was any bonafide omission, the IGM would have necessitated amendment because only the last purchaser of the goods on high seas could have been the importer consignee.	Reasoning
The High Court has also observed that there was no material on record to show that either the IGM contained the name of endbuyer as the importer consignee or that the same was subsequently amended in terms of Section 30(3) of the Customs Act.	Reasoning
These had been the pivotal reasons for which the High Court rejected the suggestion of second high seas sales in favour of the endbuyers and held that the only attempt of the appellant had been to avoid interState sales under the CST Act.	Reasoning
In the given facts, the High Court specifically recorded the findings that the sale of goods by appellant to the endbuyers had not been high seas sales and such sales could have been effected only after the appellant was assessed to customs duty and had cleared the goods for home consumption.	Reasoning
To get over the aforesaid findings of the High Court, learned counsel for the appellant has argued, with strong reliance on the decision of this Court in the case of Sampat Raj Dugar (supra), that the definition of importer in the Customs Act only indicates the person who is in possession of goods at the time of filing of bill of entry but does not indicate the title to the goods and that the questions as to when does the sale take place and who is the owner of goods would be determined only under the Sale of Goods Act and not under the Customs Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
29.	Arguments of Petitioner
For dealing with this part of submissions, we may usefully take note of the relevant definitions in Clauses (23), (24), (25) and (26) of Section 2 as also the other provisions in Sections 30 and 47 (1) of the Customs Act, as applicable and effective at the relevant point of time, as follows  (23) import, with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means bringing into India from a place outside India (24) import manifest(The words arrival manifest or import manifest were substituted in place of the words import manifest by Act 13 of 2018.)	None
or import report means the manifest or report required to be delivered under section 30 (25) imported goods means any goods brought into India from a place outside India but does not include goods which have been cleared for home consumption (26) importer, in relation to any goods at any time between their importation and the time when they are cleared for home consumption, includes any owner(The words any owner, beneficial owner were substituted in place of the words any owner by Act 7 of 2017.)	None
or any person holding himself out to be the importer Delivery of import manifest or import report.	None
The personincharge of a vessel or an aircraft or a vehicle, carrying imported goods or any other person as may be specified by the Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, in this behalf shall, in the case of a vessel or an aircraft, deliver to the proper officer an import manifest prior to arrival of the vessel or the aircraft, as the case may be, and in the case of a vehicle, an import report within twelve hours after its arrival in the customs station, in the prescribed form and if the import manifest or the import report or any part thereof, is not delivered to the proper officer within the time specified in this subsection and if the proper officer is satisfied that there was no sufficient cause for such delay, the personincharge or any other person referred to in this sub section, who caused such delay, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.	None
The person delivering the import manifest or import report shall at the foot thereof make and subscribe to a declaration as to the truth of its contents.	None
If the proper officer is satisfied that the import manifest or import report is in any way incorrect or incomplete, and that there was no fraudulent intention, he may permit it to be amended or supplemented.	None
Clearance of goods for home consumption.	None
(1) Where the proper officer is satisfied that any goods entered for home consumption are not prohibited goods and the importer has paid the import duty, if any, assessed thereon and any charges payable under this Act in respect of the same, the proper officer may make an order permitting clearance of the goods for home consumption	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx(The provisos to subsection (1) which came to be inserted and amended later on as also sub section (2) and its proviso, which were also amended several times are not reproduced for being not directly relevant for the purpose of the present case.)	None
It is but apparent that that while bringing anything into India from a place outside India is generally regarded as import and the imported goods are those goods which are brought into India from a place outside	Reasoning
but, when the goods are cleared for home consumption, they are no longer imported goods for the purpose of the Customs Act.	Reasoning
Significantly, in the process of importation, the importer, in relation to any goods, includes any owner or any other person holding himself to be the importer but, only between the time of their importation and their clearance for home consumption.	Reasoning
In other words, the net result of the expanded definition of the expression importer is that while any person who imports goods into India would be an importer but, the owner of the goods or a person holding himself to be an importer would also be regarded as an importer during the period between importation of goods and their clearance for home consumption.	Reasoning
This crucial period would generally be that period when the goods have been warehoused after importation and are cleared from warehouse by a person other than the person who actually imported the goods.	Reasoning
That being the position, in our view, the High Court has rightly said that this definition of importer cannot be used to usurp the identity of an importer from the person who filed the bill of entry.	Reasoning
In other words, the person in whose name the bill of entry is filed does not cease to be an importer and, if that person claims to be not the owner or importer, the ouns would be heavy on him to establish that someone else is the owner or importer of goods.	Reasoning
As noticed, on the connotation of the term importer for the purpose of the Customs Act, learned counsel for the appellant has placed reliance upon the decision in Sampat Raj Dugar (supra).	Reasoning
We may examine the facts and the ratio of the case of Sampat Raj Dugar, to appreciate the implication, if any, of the observations occurring therein on the questions involved in the present case.	Reasoning
31.1.	None
In the case of Sampat Raj Dugar (supra), the relevant factual aspects had been that the second respondent Ms. Renu Pahilaj was doing business at Delhi in the name and style of Acquarius.	Reasoning
whereas the first respondent, an Indian national resident abroad, was doing business at Hong Kong in the name and style of UNISILK.	Reasoning
The second respondent obtained an advance import licence on 20.05.1985 for importing raw silk that was valid for 18 months.	Reasoning
The import licence was granted subject to the condition that raw silk imported should be utilised for manufacturing garments which ought to be exported.	Reasoning
Sometime prior to the month of October, 1985, the second respondent received three consignments sent by the first respondent from Hong Kong but did not fulfil the said condition of import licence.	Reasoning
Then, during the months of OctoberNovember, 1985 the first respondent sent to India certain quantities of raw silk in four lots, to be delivered to the second respondent.	Reasoning
The requisite documents were sent to the banker of the second respondent with instructions to deliver the same on receiving the payment.	Reasoning
However, by the time the consignments arrived at Bombay, the customs authorities had come to know about the noncompliance of the aforesaid condition of licence with respect to the three earlier consignments and also of the alleged misrepresentation while obtaining the advance import licence.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the proceedings were initiated against the second respondent by the Collector of Customs.	Reasoning
On the other hand, the second respondent failed to make the payment and receive the documents of title and did not clear the goods.	Reasoning
While the proceedings were pending before the Collector of Customs, the said advance import licence was cancelled but no orders were passed with respect to the said goods.	Reasoning
The first respondent, who appeared in the proceedings of his own, contended before the Collector that title to the goods had not passed to second respondent that he was still the owner of the goods and that therefore, the said goods could not be confiscated or proceeded against for the violations, if any, by the second respondent.	Reasoning
He submitted that he was not a party to the misuse of the earlier imports nor was he aware of the alleged fraud practised by the second respondent in obtaining the advance import licence and prayed that he may be permitted to reexport the goods to Hong Kong.	Reasoning
The Collector of Customs took the view that permission for re export could not be granted for the reasons that the advance import licence having been cancelled, there was no valid licence for clearance of those goods that for reexporting the goods, a valid import licence was necessary which was not there and also because the second respondent had abandoned the goods.	Reasoning
On that basis, the Collector of Customs rejected the claims of the first respondent and imposed a penalty of Rs. 5 lakhs on him.	Reasoning
31.2.	None
In the aforesaid background, the first respondent, who had sent the goods from Hong Kong, filed a writ petition before the High Court.	Reasoning
The case of the Collector of Customs and the Union of India was that the second respondent must be deemed to be the owner of the consignments by virtue of the definition of importer in Section 2 (26) of the Customs Act read with Clause 5(3)(ii) of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955.	Reasoning
Reliance was also placed upon Para 26(iv) of the Imports and Exports Policy issued for the year 198586 and it was submitted that the goods were liable to be confiscated for the acts and defaults of respondent.	Reasoning
It was also submitted that in view of non compliance with the condition relating to export of garments manufactured out of the imported raw silk yarn, the second respondent had rendered all the goods covered by the import licence liable to confiscation.	Reasoning
The High Court, however, allowed the writ petition and directed reexport of the goods to first respondent.	Reasoning
Hence, the matter was in appeal before this Court.	Reasoning
31.3.	None
A bare look at the relevant background aspects of the said case makes it clear that essentially, the effect of the conditions in the import licence and noncompliance thereof had been the subject matter of consideration therein and particularly Clause 5(3)(ii) of the import licence, deeming the imported goods as being the property of licensee, was under consideration in view of the facts that the imported goods were abandoned by the importer and were not cleared from customs by making payments and receiving documents of title sent by the seller.	Reasoning
While examining such a condition of licence and its impact, this Court observed that the definition of importer in Section 2(26) of the Customs Act was not really relevant to the question of title.	Reasoning
The Court also examined the object of the said Clause 5(3)(ii) of the import licence and observed that the idea had been to hold the licensee responsible for anything and everything that would happen from the time of import till the goods were cleared through customs.	Reasoning
The Court found that when the goods were imported into the country at the instance of the licensee, the Imports (Control) Order created a fiction that such licensee shall be deemed to be the owner of such goods from the time of their import till they were cleared through customs and observed that this fiction, meant for proper and effective implementation of Imports and Exports (Control) Act, could not be carried beyond that and it could not have been employed to attribute ownership of the imported goods to the importer even in a case where he abandons them.	Reasoning
This Court also indicated that holding otherwise would be putting the exporter in a position of losing goods without receiving payment with only remedy to sue the importer for price and damages which would not be conducive to international trade.	Reasoning
The relevant parts of observations and consideration in paragraph 19 of the said decision could be usefully reproduced as under We may first consider the question of title to the said goods.	None
If we keep aside the provisions of law relied upon by the appellants viz., definition of importer in Section 2(26) of the Customs Act, clause 5(3)(ii) of the Imports (Control) Order as well as para 26(iv) of the ImportExport Policy, the position is quite simple.	Reasoning
Since respondent 2 did not pay for and receive the documents of the title she did not become the owner of the said goods, which means that respondent 1 continued to be the owner.	Reasoning
How do the aforesaid provisions make any difference to this position?	Reasoning
The definition of importer in Section 2(26) of the Customs Act is not really relevant to the question of title.	Reasoning
It only defines the expression importer.	Reasoning
Respondent 1 does not claim to be the importer.	Reasoning
The provision upon which strong reliance is placed by the appellants in this behalf is the one contained in clause 5(3)(ii) of the Imports (Control) Order.	Reasoning
Subclause (1) of clause 5 specifies conditions which can be attached to an import licence at the time of its grant.	Reasoning
Subclause (2) says that a licence granted under the Order shall be subject to the conditions specified in Fifth Schedule to the Order.	Reasoning
Subclause (3) sets out three other conditions mentioned as (i), (ii), and (iii) which shall attach to every import licence granted under the Order.	Reasoning
First of these conditions says that the import licence shall be nontransferable except under the written permission of the licensing authority or other competent authority.	Reasoning
Condition (ii)  which is the provision relevant herein  says that the goods for the import of which a licence is granted shall be the property of the licensee at the time of import and thereafter up to the time of clearance through customs.	Reasoning
This condition, however, does not apply to STC, MMTC and other similar institutions entrusted with canalisation of imports.	Reasoning
It also does not apply to certain eligible export houses, trading houses and public sector agencies mentioned in the second proviso.	Reasoning
Condition (iii) says that the goods for which the import licence is granted shall be new goods unless otherwise mentioned in the licence.	Reasoning
Now coming back to condition (ii), the question is what does it mean and what is the object underlying it when it says that the imported goods shall be the property of the licensee from the time of import till they are cleared through customs.	Reasoning
It is necessary to notice the language of the subclause.	Reasoning
It says it shall be deemed to be a condition of every such licence that  the goods for the import of which a licence is granted shall be the property of the licensee at the time of import and thereafter up to the time of clearance through customs.	Reasoning
The rulemaking authority (Central Government), which issued the order, must be presumed to be aware of the fact that in many cases, the importer is not the owner of the goods imported at the time of their import and that he becomes their owner only at a later stage, i.e., when he pays for and obtains the relevant documents.	Reasoning
Why did the Central Government declare that such goods shall be the property of the licensee from the time of import?	Reasoning
For appreciating this, one has to ascertain the object underlying the said provision.	Reasoning
The interpretation to be placed upon the provision should be consistent with and should be designed to achieve such object.	Reasoning
In this context, it should also be remembered that expressions like property of and vest do not have a single universal meaning.	Reasoning
Their content varies with the context.	Reasoning
The aphorism that a word is not a crystal and that it takes its colour from the context is no less true in the case of these words.	Reasoning
In our opinion the object underlying condition (ii) in clause 5(3) is to ensure a proper implementation of the Imports (Control) Order and the Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947.	Reasoning
The idea is to hold the licensee responsible for anything and everything that happens from the time of import till they are cleared through customs.	Reasoning
The exporter is outside the country, while the importer, i.e., the licensee is in India.	Reasoning
It is at the instance of the licensee that the goods are imported into this country.	Reasoning
Whether or not he is the owner of such goods in law, the Imports (Control) Order creates a fiction that he shall be deemed to be the owner of the such goods from the time of their import till they are cleared through customs.	Reasoning
This fiction is created for the proper and effective implementation of the said order and the Imports and Exports (Control) Act.	Reasoning
The fiction however cannot be carried beyond that.	Reasoning
It cannot be employed to attribute ownership of the imported goods to the importer even in a case where he abandons them, that is, in a situation where he does not pay for and receive the documents of title.	Reasoning
It may be that for such act of abandonment, action may be taken against him for suspension cancellation of licence.	Reasoning
May be, some other proceedings can also be taken against him.	Reasoning
But certainly he cannot be treated as the owner of the goods even in such a case.	Reasoning
Holding otherwise would place the exporter in a very difficult position he loses the goods without receiving the payment and his only remedy is to sue the importer for the price of goods and for such damage as he may have suffered.	Reasoning
This would not be conducive to international trade.	Reasoning
We can well imagine situations where for one or other reason, an importer chooses or fails to pay for and take delivery of the imported goods.	Reasoning
He just abandons them.	Reasoning
(We may reiterate that we are speaking of a case where the import is not contrary to law).	Reasoning
It is only with such a situation that we are concerned in this case and our decision is also confined only to such a situation.	Reasoning
Condition (ii) in subclause (3) of clause 5, in our opinion, does not operate to deprive the exporter of his title to said goods in such a situation.	Reasoning
31.4.	None
A close look at the discussion and observations abovequoted makes it clear that basically, the fiction created under the Imports (Control) Order, to the effect that the licensee shall be deemed to be the owner of goods from the time of their import till they were cleared through customs, was under consideration in that case and having examined the object behind such a fiction, this Court observed that the same was meant for proper and effective implementation of Imports and Exports (Control) Act and could not be carried beyond that, so as to attribute ownership of the imported goods to the importer even when the importer abandons them.	Reasoning
The observations of this Court, when read and understood in their context, make it clear that they are of no bearing on the facts of the present case as also the questions involved herein.	Reasoning
It has not been laid down that in Sampat Raj Dugar (supra) that a person who is shown to be the importer by virtue of his filing bills of entry for warehousing and for home consumption, as also for his having been assessed to customs duty, would yet fall outside the definition of importer in Section 2 (26) of the Customs Act.	Reasoning
The said decision in Sampat Raj Dugar does not advance the cause of the appellant in any manner.	Reasoning
As noticed, the definition of importer in Section 2(26) of the Customs Act, even if not directly decisive of the question of title, has its implications on the facts of the present case for the reason that the appellant alone filed the bills of entry for warehousing as also for home consumption.	Reasoning
Yet further, the requirements of filing import manifest, as per Section 30 of the Customs Act, have their own bearing on the present case.	Reasoning
It remains indisputable that the name of the appellant was reflected as importer in IGM.	Reasoning
If, as asserted by the appellant, the goods had been sold on the high seas, the cargo declaration of IGM(As per the requirements of Regulation 3 (c) (iii) of Import Manifest (Vessels) Regulations, 1971, the import manifest has to consist, inter alia, of a cargo declaration in Form No. III.	Reasoning
Such cargo declaration is required to carry, amongst others, particulars of bill of lading and the name of consignee importer, if different.)	Reasoning
would have reflected the name of last high seas purchaser as importer and in other event, the IGM would have necessitated amendment because only the last purchaser of the goods on high seas would have been declared as consignee importer in IGM.	Reasoning
The fact that the name of Radha (and other endbuyers) was not mentioned in IGM as the importer consignee nor the relevant IGM was amended, the suggestion about second high seas sale in favour of Radha (and other endbuyers) turns out to be only a selfserving suggestion of the appellant, which has no corroboration on the record rather the official records totally belie the suggestion of the appellant.	Reasoning
32.1.	None
The fact of the matter remains that even though the appellant has suggested that the bills of lading were endorsed in favour of Radha (and other endbuyers) when goods were on high seas but this bald assertion is not corroborated by any of the official documents which form the part of the process of importation, warehousing and clearance of goods.	Reasoning
On the contrary, the High Court has pointed out as illustration the details of one of the bills of entry, which distinctively gave out all the particulars of IGM, the invoice, the value of cargo, etc. and the High Court has found that in the bill of entry, the name of appellant alone was shown as the importer who cleared the goods from customs with the assistance of the Customs House Agent.	Reasoning
In the given set of facts, if the goods were at all sold to Radha (and other endbuyers) on high seas, the name of such endbuyer would have appeared as importer and not that of the appellant.	Reasoning
The same considerations operate against the assertion that the appellant was only acting as an agent of the endbuyers.	Reasoning
The High Court has rightly pointed out that the Customs House Agent is an entirely different person who acts only to present papers for clearance of the imported goods under a bill of entry.	Reasoning
Of course, under Section 147 of the Customs Act, a person could act on behalf of importer or owner but such a person cannot be treated as owner of the goods nor could be made liable for customs duty.	Reasoning
If the appellant was merely acting as an agent, then bill of entry would have reflected the name of endbuyer as the importer and the appellant as an agent of the importer and further to that, the said endbuyer would have been assessed for customs duty.	Reasoning
It were not so.	None
The discussion foregoing leads to the position that though the definition of importer includes owner or any person holding out himself as the importer and this definition of importer is not really relevant to the question of title but, that does not mean that a person who holds out himself to be the importer and who files the bill of entry for home consumption and who is assessed for customs duty and whose suggestion about transfer of title to a third person is not established by any reference to any official record, the transfer on high seas may be presumed on mere suggestion about the alleged endorsement of bill of lading.	Reasoning
34.1.	None
When all other official documents as also dealings of the appellant clearly establish that the appellant had been the importer, the consequences are bound to follow.	Reasoning
It gets perforce reiterated that when the bills of entry recorded the name of the appellant as importer and the appellant alone was assessed to customs duty, the so called second high seas sale agreements never came into operation.	Reasoning
Whether sale in question occasioned import of goods As noticed, the CTO specifically observed that it had not been the case of the appellant that the sale in question occasioned the import of goods into the country.	Reasoning
However, an attempt was made before the High Court to suggest that the entire import was occasioned by ultimate sale in favour of Radha and, therefore, the matter would also be covered in the first part of subsection (2) of Section 5 of the CST Act.	Reasoning
The High Court noticed that such a plea could not have been raised for the first time in the writ petition for being a mixed question of facts and law.	Reasoning
The High Court also observed that even such suggestion was belied by the fact that only the name of the appellant was reflected in the bill of entry as importer and not of Radha.	Reasoning
It has been argued before us too that the quadripartite agreement triggered the movement of goods from foreign country to India and not merely from Andhra Pradesh to other States that, in fact, the sales in question had not been interState sales but these sales had occasioned the movement of goods from outside India into India and that the Indian leg of the integrated transaction cannot be segregated so as to be taxed as interState sale under the CST Act.	Reasoning
These suggestions also remain totally baseless as noticed infra.	Reasoning
We had indicated in the earlier part of the judgment that the decision in the case of K. Gopinathan Nair (supra) shall be referred at a later stage.	Reasoning
We are impelled to refer to the said decision now to deal with the aforesaid suggestions of the appellant.	Reasoning
We may, however, observe that this suggestion, that the sales in question had occasioned import of goods into the country, is incompatible with the other assertion that the sales were effected by transfer of documents of title when the goods were on high seas.	Reasoning
The two alternative parts of subsection (2) of Section 5 cannot ordinarily go together.	Reasoning
36.1. Be that as it may, the submissions made by the appellant about the interlinked nature of transactions under the quadripartite agreements and the suggestion about the sales in question occasioning import stand effectively repelled by the decision of this Court in K.Gopinathan Nair (supra).	Reasoning
In the said case, this Court dealt with the set of appeals arising from the decisions of Kerala High Court and Karnataka High Court.	Reasoning
The background aspects had been that the appellants before Kerala High Court were the persons importing cashew nuts from African countries directly but after issuance of a Import Trade (Control) Order on 31.08.1970, cashew nuts could be imported only through a canalising agency namely, the Cashew Corporation of India (CCI).	Reasoning
Consequently, the said appellants imported cashew nuts from African countries through CCI.	Reasoning
The CCI used to collect the information regarding requirement of actual users but was thereafter importing cashew nuts on its own by entering into independent contracts with the foreign exporters and then, the goods were obtained by local users.	Reasoning
In the appeal arising from the decision of Karnataka High Court, CCI itself was the appellant.	Reasoning
The principal contention of the appellants before the taxing authorities had been that transaction of sale by CCI to actual users was in the course of import and, therefore, the State Sales Tax Act could not encompass such a transaction.	Reasoning
The contentions were rejected by the respective Tax Tribunals as also by the respective High Courts.	Reasoning
The common question for determination before this Court was as to whether the import of raw cashew nuts by CCI from African exporters was in the course of import and, therefore, eligible for exemption under Sections 5(2) of the CST Act.	Reasoning
As noticed, the learned Judges of this Court differed in their views.	Reasoning
In the majority decision, after delineating the determinative factors, the Court examined the facts of the case and the nature of transactions and dealings of the parties and observed that clearly, there were two transactions one being of the import of raw cashew by CCI from foreign exporters and the second being backtoback sale by the canalising agency like CCI in favour of the local users for whom the goods were indented.	Reasoning
The Court held that independent sale which may be based even on a prior agreement of sale by CCI to local users would remain an independent transaction between the importer CCI and the local purchaser but there was no privity of contract between the local users and the foreign exporter.	Reasoning
Hence, this Court rejected the contention of the appellants that transaction of sale by CCI to actual users was in the course of import in the following passage 19All the aforesaid features which are well established on record leave no room for doubt that it is on account of the sale to CCI by foreign exporter that the raw cashew get imported in India and the importer is CCI and not the local user.	Reasoning
It is the demand of the local users which prompted the canalising agency like CCI to place orders for import of the quantities concerned.	Reasoning
But CCI deals with foreign exporter on its own and gets bulk imports of cashewnuts.	Reasoning
It is the sale to the CCI by the foreign exporter or conversely the purchase by the CCI of the raw cashew from the foreign exporter that occasions the movement of raw cashew from African countries to India.	Reasoning
The imported cashew remains of the ownership of the importer CCI and only on retirement of documents on payment of value of the allotted cashew by the local users and on their getting the goods cleared from customs that the property in the imported goods concerned would pass from CCI to the local users.	Reasoning
Thus there are two clear transactions.	Reasoning
One transaction is the import of raw cashew by CCI from foreign exporters.	Reasoning
The second transaction which is a backtoback transaction is of sale by the canalising agency like CCI which is the wholesale importer in favour of the local users for whom the goods are indented.	Reasoning
That independent sale which may be based even on a prior agreement of sale by CCI to local users would remain an independent transaction between importer CCI and the local purchaser, namely, the local user.	Reasoning
There is no privity of contract between the local users on the one hand and the foreign exporter on the other.	Reasoning
These two transactions cannot be said to be so integrally interconnected as to represent one composite transaction in the course of import of raw cashewnuts as tried to be submitted by the learned Senior Counsel for the appellants.	Reasoning
36.2.	None
For yet further clarity, we may refer to the relevant parts of the minority view, wherein the import of goods and sale to the local purchasers were taken to be inextricably linked hence, the contentions of the said appellants were proposed to be accepted with the following observations This seldom happens in the case of imports whenever the local seller imports the goods as per the specifications of a specific local buyer and on the mutual understanding between the local buyer and the local seller that the goods so imported by the local seller will be purchased by the local buyer.	Reasoning
There is in such cases, a direct link between the local sale and the import.	Reasoning
In fact it is this mutual understanding between the local buyer and the local seller which occasions the import.	Reasoning
That is why the cases dealing with imports have not resorted to differentiating between one sale or two sales.	Reasoning
They have applied the test as prescribed by Section 5 Whether the import is a result of understanding contract between the local buyer and local seller?	Reasoning
If it is, the local sale falls under Section 5.	Reasoning
If it is not as may well happen if the importer sells his goods after they arrive to the best available offeror in the market, then the sale is not covered by Section 5.	Reasoning
That is why there has been no need to amend Section 5 to expressly cover a local sale following import.	Reasoning
Now, if we apply this test of inseverable link between the local sale and import to the transaction in the present case, it is clear that the local sale which is between the assessees and the Cashew Corporation of India is inextricably linked with the import of cashewnuts by the Cashew Corporation of India.	Reasoning
However, since there is a direct and inseverable link between the transaction of sale and the import of goods on account of the nature of the understanding between the parties as also by reason of the canalising scheme pertaining to the import of cashewnuts, the sales in question cannot be taxed under the Kerala General Sales Tax Act or the Karnataka General Sales Tax Act, as the case may be.	Reasoning
36.3.	None
The case of the present appellant, as regards the effect of quadripartite agreement and the suggestion about the sale having occasioned import is, at best, the one as would appear in the minority view in the case of K. Gopinathan Nair (supra).	Reasoning
The said minority view being not the dictum of this Court and rather, the contra view being the law declared, the contentions of the appellant must fail.	Reasoning
These had been interState sales The effect of raising of debit notes by the appellant on the endbuyers has its own bearing in the present case.	None
The appellant had admittedly raised such debit notes on the endbuyers but only after having cleared the goods by filing the bill of entry for home consumption.	Reasoning
Once the suggestion about the second high seas sales is not accepted and it is found that the appellant had been the importer of goods and had cleared them for home consumption, the natural consequence of raising of such debit notes on the endbuyers situated in different States and movement of goods to such endbuyers would be to take these transactions in the category of interState sales in terms of Section 3(a) of the CST Act.	Reasoning
The appellant was not entitled to the exemption of Section 5(2) of the CST Act and has rightly been held liable for tax over interState sales.	Reasoning
After the appellant got the goods released by filing bill of entry for home consumption, indisputably, the goods were ultimately received by Radha at Lucknow in the State of Uttar Pradesh (and other endbuyers in different States) and appellant raised debit notes from the State of Andhra Pradesh.	Reasoning
These facts are sufficient to establish that the movement of goods inside the country from one State to another had been on account of the sale by appellant to the endbuyers and such sales took place only after the appellant obtained the goods from the bonded warehouse for home consumption.	Reasoning
In our view, the High Court was right in observing that once the appellant got released the goods after filing the bill of entry for home consumption, the import stream dried up and the goods got mixed in the local goods.	Reasoning
Any movement of the goods thereafter was bound to be a sale under Section 3(a) of the CST Act and such movement being from the State of Andhra Pradesh to other State, it had been a matter of interState sale.	Reasoning
The principle that actual sale may not necessarily precede the movement of goods, in its true effect, operates rather against the appellant in relation to the sale to endbuyers after the goods were cleared for home consumption.	Reasoning
If any case for relegating the appellant to the remedy of appeal made out This takes us to the alternative submission on behalf of the appellant that in view of the disputed questions of fact involved, the appellant may be relegated to the remedy of appeal.	Arguments of Petitioner
These submissions fail to impress even a bit.	None
40.1.	None
The appellant, despite being aware of the availability of remedy of statutory appeal, consciously chose to file writ petitions against the assessment orders aforesaid and consciously contested the entire matter in the High Court.	Reasoning
The High Court, even after noticing the framework of certiorari jurisdiction, examined the merits of the case thoroughly and even examined the submission made for the first time in writ petitions that the import of goods was occasioned by the sales in question.	Reasoning
Of course, in that regard, the High Court pointed out that it was not a pure question of law but in any case, such submission was belied by the fact that the name of the appellant was reflected in the bill of entry as the importer and not that of the endbuyer.	Reasoning
We are unable to find any error or fault in the approach of High Court in this case.	Reasoning
40.2.	None
The prayer that the appellant may now be allowed to contest the matter in statutory appeal has only been noted to be rejected.	Reasoning
After having consciously invoked the writ jurisdiction of the High Court and having contested the matter on merits, the appellant cannot now be allowed to re open the matter in appeal.	Reasoning
Reference to the decision of this Court in the case of Star Paper Mills Ltd. (supra) is entirely inapposite.	Reasoning
In that case, by a format order dated 23.11.1987, the High Court of Delhi remitted the matter pending before it in a writ petition to the Assistant Collector who, accordingly, made an adjudication on 30.05.1988.	Reasoning
This order of the Assistant Collector was permitted to be brought on record in the pending writ petition and the petition was ultimately disposed of on 05.07.1993.	Reasoning
The contentions in the writ petition by the petitioner related to the deductions as postmanufacturing expenses towards freight subsidies, additional trade discounts and cost of special packing.	Reasoning
Though the High Court observed that the claims involved investigation into disputed question of fact but, in effect, declined the relief claimed under those heads of the alleged postmanufacturing costs on the ground that sufficient material was not placed by the petitioner in support of the claims for deductions.	Reasoning
In those circumstances, this Court extended liberty of appeal to the petitioner while observing as under On a consideration of the matter, we are of the view that against the adjudication made by the Assistant Collector, the petitioner should have one effective opportunity of an appeal.	Reasoning
The High Court could have declined to interfere with the matter under Article 226 if, in its view, the matter involved investigation of disputed facts and relegated the petitioner to the statutory records.	Reasoning
But it rejected the claim on the ground of insufficiency of materiala situation which might be susceptible of an irreconcilability with its view that disputed questions of fact could not be investigated in these proceedings.	Reasoning
We, therefore, permit the petitioner to lodge an appeal against the order of the Assistant Collector dated 3051988 with the CEGAT insofar as and confined to the three Heads of the deductions for the alleged postmanufacturing expenses, namely (a) freight subsidy (b) additional trade discount and (c) cost of special packing.	Reasoning
40.3.	None
The observations aforesaid and the course permitted in the given set of facts of the case of Star Paper Mills Ltd. (supra) cannot be employed in the present case because the findings against the appellant are not on the ground of insufficiency of material but are essentially the result of analysis of the material placed on record with reference to the law applicable.	Reasoning
In our view, the extraordinary writ jurisdiction cannot be utilised by a litigant only to take chance and then to seek recourse to the other remedy after failing in its attempt on the basic merits of the case before the High Court.	Reasoning
A litigation cannot be allowed to be unendingly kept alive at the choice of a litigant.	Reasoning
Another feature of the case Before parting, we may also point out that suggestions of the appellant about such transactions with involvement of multiple parties had undergone thorough scrutiny by the concerned CTO and significantly, the suggestions about such quadripartite agreements and arrangements were found to be rather false in relation to at least two of the alleged endbuyers, where one of the endbuyer firm(M s. Pine Exporters, New Delhi, the alleged endbuyer in third and fourth transactions in the assessment order dated 18.05.2010 (vide paragraphs 10.3, 11.1 and 11.2 supra)) denied having received the goods in question or even knowing the appellant and the other endbuyer firm(M	Reasoning
s.	Reasoning
Esskay Impex, New Delhi, the alleged endbuyer in fifth and sixth transactions in the assessment order dated 18.05.2010 (vide paragraphs 10.4, 11.1 and 11.2 supra)) was not even found at the given address.	Reasoning
As noticed hereinbefore, the overall dealings indicate that the attempt on the part of the appellant had only been to distort the facts and by alleging multiple transactions, to somehow avoid the operation of law relating to Central Sales Tax.	Reasoning
Such attempt has rightly met with its disapproval at the hands of the CTO and the High Court.	Reasoning
We have no hesitation in endorsing their views.	Reasoning
Conclusion and directions For what has been discussed hereinabove, we are clearly of the view that the claimed exemption under Section 5(2) of the CST Act has rightly been denied to the appellant and the High Court has been justified in dismissing the writ petitions filed by the appellant.	Decision
The High Court has yet been considerate and gave time to the appellant to submit CForms for availing the benefit of concessional rate of tax.	Decision
No case for interference is made out.	None
Lastly, we may observe that in terms of the orders passed in these appeals, the appellant has deposited an amount of Rs. 7,07,325/ (rupees seven lakhs seven thousand three hundred and twenty five) with the respondent.	Decision
As these appeals are being dismissed, the respondent shall be entitled to adjust the same against the dues of the appellant.	Decision
In the result, these appeals fail and are dismissed with costs and with the observations foregoing.	Decision
