 Mudholkar, J. 1.	None
The point in dispute amongst the parties to this appeal by certificate from a judgment of the High Court of Mysore pertains to the adoption of the plaintiffrespondent No. 1, Muddappa.	Issue
Muddappa who was the natural born son of Ganga Gowda (Jr.) and his second wife Ramamma (defendant No. 2) and according to him, was adopted by Eramma (Sr.) as a son to her deceased husband Chenne Gowda (Sr.).	Facts
The fact as well as the validity of the adoption were denied by the defendant Eramma (Jr.) who was defendant No. 5 to the suit and by her brothers Purade Gowda and Nanjunde Gowda who were defendants 6 and 7 to the suit being donees from her of property belonging to the family.	Facts
The relationship between the parties to the suit would be apparent from the following genealogy which is set out in the plaint Ganga Gowda (Senior) It is common ground that Channe Gowda (Sr.) died sometime in the year 1911 leaving behind him his widow Eramma.	Facts
(Sr.)	Facts
but without leaving any male issue.	Facts
It is said that he had left two daughters, one of whom died shortly after his death but the other probably is still alive.	Facts
According to the plaintiff he was adopted by Eramma (Sr.) on September 22, 1950.	Facts
But the deed of adoption which was executed on that very day was registered on October 31, 1950.	Facts
After the adoption, however, Eramma (Jr.) the 5th defendant executed a deed of gift in favour of her brothers Purande Gowda and Nanjunda Gowda, defendants 6 and 7, on September 28, 1950 whereunder she conveyed the joint family property which at family partition in the year 1940 had been allotted to her share.	Facts
The plaintiff being a minor, instituted a suit on December 2, 1950 for a declaration of his status as a validly adopted son of the deceased Channe Gowda (Sr.)	Facts
through his next friend, his adoptive mother Eramma (Sr.).	Facts
The plaint alleged that even though several demands were made to deliver possession of half of the joint family property to which the plaintiff was entitled, the defendants did not deliver it to him.	Facts
He, therefore, claimed a partition of the joint family property, possession of his half share therein and mesne profits.	Facts
2.	None
The suit was resisted by defendants 5, 6 and 7 but not by the other defendants who, it may be mentioned, are the other members of the family.	Facts
It will be seen from the genealogy that the plaintiff Muddappa is no stranger.	Facts
He is a son of Gange Gowda (Jr.), the elder son of Shive Gowda.	Facts
Shive Gowda was the elder brother of Channe Gowda (Sr.)	Facts
Eramma (Jr.) is the widow of Shivaganga Gowda who was the second son of Shive Gowda.	Facts
The only other male members of the family existing at the date of suit were Muddappa and his natural brother Sivanna defendant No.	Facts
3.The former claimed half share in the family property.	Facts
According to the contesting defendants, however, no adoption at all took place on September 22, 1950, that the adoption deed was antedated, that in any case Eramma (Sr.) had no authority to make the adoption, that even if the fact as well as the validity of the adoption is found in favour of the plaintiff the adoptive mother was divested of her interest in the family property by reason of a partition which took place in the year 1940 during the lifetime of Gange Gowda (Jr.).	Arguments of Respondent
This last contention, however, was not raised before the High Court and we have not permitted it to be raised in the appeal before us.	None
It was faintly suggested that the alienation by Eramma, defendant No. 5, in favour of her brothers of certain family property which was in her possession was not affected by the adoption.	Arguments of Petitioner
This contention, however was not persisted in for the obvious reason that it is plainly unsustainable.	None
The only points which were argued before us were, therefore, (1) whether the adoption had in fact been made and (2) whether Eramma (Sr.) was not authorised to take a son in adoption to her deceased husband.	None
3.	None
In so far as the fact of adoption is concerned there is ample evidence.	Reasoning
In the first place there is the evidence of Eramma (Sr.) herself.	Reasoning
In addition, there is the evidence of Sidda Gowda, P. W. 1, Chaluve Gowda, P. W. 2, Shivappa, P. W. 3, and Patil Nanjude Gowda, P. W. 4.	Reasoning
They have vividly described what was done on that occasion.	Reasoning
The evidence of all of them proves giving and taking which is the essence of adoption.	Reasoning
In addition, there is the evidence of P. W. 2 Chaluve Gowda, scribe to the adoption deed.	Reasoning
Their evidence reads natural and has been accepted as true by the High Court.	None
The main criticism of Mr. Chaudhury for the appellants is that three of the witnesses were related to Eramma and the fourth was a chance witness.	Arguments of Petitioner
Adoption after all is a family affair and the most natural witnesses would ordinarily be members of the family.	None
In so far as the scribe is concerned, he has given good reasons for being present at the time of adoption and for scribing the deed.	Reasoning
The adoption deed itself was executed contemporaneously with the adoption and thus furnishes evidence of the adoption.	Reasoning
We have been taken through the evidence of these witnesses and there is no reason for us to disagree with the High Court as to the credibility of the witnesses examined on behalf of the plaintiff.	Reasoning
Moreover the adoptive mother herself is alive and has sworn to the fact of adoption.	Reasoning
By reason of the adoption it is she who has been divested of her interest in the property.	Reasoning
It was, therefore, not in her interest to depose falsely as to the fact of adoption if it had not in fact taken place.	Reasoning
4.	None
On the question of authority the law in the State of Mysore is to be found in Mysore Act 10 of 1933 entitled Hindu Law Womans Rights Act.	None
1933 Section 9(1) of that Act runs thus In the absence of an express prohibition in writing, by the husband, his widow, or, where he has left more widows than one, the seniormost of them shall be presumed to have his authority to make an adoption.	None
It will be clear from this provision that ordinarily authority to adopt will be presumed.	None
The law in this respect is thus in line with the law in the Bombay State.	None
Learned counsel for the defendantsappellants relying upon the decision of the Mysore High Court in Srinivasachar v. Lakshmikantha.	None
(1942) 20 Mys LJ 384, contended that the presumption arising under S. 9(1) of the Act is not an irrebuttable one and that this presumption should be deemed to have been rebutted by reason of the following circumstances (1) that though her husband died in the year 1911 his widow did not think of making adoption for almost 40 years.	None
(2) that her deceased husband had left two daughters at the time of his death and must have, therefore, prohibited his wife for making an adoption after his death (3) that she did not mention in the deed of adoption the fact that she had authority from her husband to adopt (4) that in the year 1942 she had instituted a suit against the other members of the family for partition of the family property and alternatively for maintenance in forma pauperis but she did not mention in the plaint that she had a power to adopt.	None
5.	None
It seems to us that there is no substance in the argument of learned counsel.	Reasoning
A bare look at subsection (1) of S. 9 shows that it raises a presumption as to the right of a widow to make an adoption to her husband.	Reasoning
Ordinarily this presumption can be rebutted by establishing that the husband had expressly prohibited her from making an adoption.	Reasoning
Such a prohibition could be established either by direct evidence or by circumstantial evidence.	Reasoning
Can it be said that from the four circumstances relied upon by learned counsel that it is possible for any court to draw a reasonable conclusion to the effect that the husband of Eramma (Sr.) had expressly prohibited her from adopting?	Reasoning
The strongest circumstances upon which reliance is placed by learned counsel is the long delay in making the adoption.	Reasoning
This delay is explicable by reason of the fact that Eramma was in her twenties when her husband died and it was natural that at such an early age she would not take the risk of divesting herself of her interest in the property by making an adoption and leave herself at the mercy of the adopted son.	Reasoning
Later the Hindu Law Womens Rights Act came into force under S. 8 of which the widow of a deceased coparcener belonging to the joint Hindu family was given a right to share in the family property.	Reasoning
That being the position it is no wonder that Eramma was in no hurry to make an adoption.	Reasoning
As regards the second circumstances it is sufficient to say that the real object behind her adoption is the belief of the Hindu community in general that unless there is a son to offer oblations to the deceased ancestors their souls will not reach the higher regions and may even sink into hell.	Reasoning
The mere existence of a daughter is not sufficient to save the souls of ancestors and that is why a sonless Hindu makes an adoption of a son even though he may have a number of daughters.	Reasoning
As regards the next two circumstances we do not see any relevance at all.	Reasoning
These circumstances were pressed in aid by learned counsel apparently upon an error as to the true legal position.	Reasoning
The law as it stood in Mysore at the relevant time did not require a widow to proclaim to anyone the she had an authority to adopt a son to her husband.	Reasoning
The law on the other hand was that she could make an adoption unless she was expressly prohibited from doing so.	Reasoning
The circumstances upon which reliance was placed by learned counsel do not help the defendantsappellants in discharging the onus cast upon them by law of establishing a prohibition to the widow from making an adoption.	Reasoning
In the result, therefore, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs throughout.	Decision
6.	None
Appeal dismissed.	Decision
