 S. SIRPURKAR, J. This judgment will govern Special Leave Petition (Civil) Nos. 33194 of 2009, 33958 of 2009 and 35336 of 2009.	None
Leave granted in all the Special Leave Petitions.	None
In the first two Special Leave Petitions, judgment passed by the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad dated 30.11.2009, is in challenge while in the third Special Leave Petition, judgment dated 5.10.2009 on the same subject is impugned.	None
By the impugned judgments, the Writ Petitions filed by the land owners challenging the notification under Sections 4 and 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (hereinafter called the Act for short) relating to Yamuna Expressway Project, were dismissed by the High Court.	None
In the Writ Petitions, directions were sought, firstly not to give effect to the notifications issued and further not to dispossess the landholders petitioners after demolishing their constructions on the lands which were proposed to be acquired.	None
All the challenges were repelled by the High Court.	None
The High Court, in the judgment dated 30.11.2009 passed in Civil Misc.	None
Writ Petition No.31314 of 2009 (Nand Kishore Gupta Ors.	Decision
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.), basically pointed out that out of 12,282 land owners, 11,397 had already received their compensation under the agreement and the challenge related only to 21.03 hectares out of 1,604 hectares of land.	None
The High Court also took the view that the scales of justice must tilt towards the right to development of the millions who will be benefited from the road and the development of the area, as against the human rights of 35 petitioners therein, whose main complaint was that they were not heard before the declaration under Section 6 of the Act.	None
The High Court also declined to give any direction to the State Government to consider to exempt 21.03 hectares of land relating to the 35 petitioners therein on account of the fact that the construction of the road had to be made in an alignment and that alignment could not be changed.	None
Identical view was taken in another Writ Petition filed by one Balbir Singh.	None
The High Court also expressed its concerns that any direction to exempt the land covered by the construction might seriously jeopardize the Project.	None
The High Court also reiterated that the acquisition of the land for interchange of the road was the essential part of the Project, as also the construction of bridges, culverts and interchanges, which were essential for the fast moving six lane Expressway.	None
Before we approach the arguments, it would be interesting to see some facts of this litigation.	None
A notification dated 20.2.2009 was issued by the Government of Uttar Pradesh under Section 4(1) read with Sections 17(1) and 17(4) of the Act.	Facts
Thereunder, the lands described in the schedules appended thereto in District Agra, Pargana Etmadpur, Tehsil Etmadpur, Village Kuberpur were covered for a public purpose, namely, the construction of the interchange under the Yamuna Expressway Project in District Agra through Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (hereinafter called YEIDA for short).	Facts
In fact, in the year 2001 itself, the State Government had taken a decision for the construction of Yamuna Expressway which sometimes earlier was named as Taj Expressway, which was to proceed from Greater Noida to Agra.	Facts
This was to be done on Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT) basis and the builder was to get the rights to collect the tolls for a period of 36 years from the date of commencement of commercial operations.	Facts
On account of the public outcry, the State Government appointed a Commission of Enquiry under the Chairmanship of Mr. Justice Siddheshwar Narain (Retd.).	Facts
A Public Interest Litigation was also filed.	Facts
The Project was cleared in the enquiry and the Public Interest Litigation also ended in favour of the Government of U.P.	Facts
It is on the backdrop of this that the State Government came up with a notification dated 20.2.2009, i.e. only after its way was cleared, which itself took about 8 years.	Facts
This was the reason given for making applicable the urgency clause under Sections 17(1) and 17(4) of the Act.	Facts
Legal notices were served by those who were affected, but ultimately the State came out with a notification dated 15.6.2009 under Section 6(1) read with Sections 17(1) and 17(4) of the Act.	Facts
It is mainly the complaint of the appellants that they had purchased the land long time back and their names were duly mutated in the Revenue records and they had thereafter raised constructions over the land in question, and in those constructions, they were running their business like shops, coldstorage etc.	Facts
The appellants also complained that the area which was proposed to be cleared for the interchange, if acquired, the appellants would suffer immensely.	Facts
The appellants very seriously challenged the application of urgency under Sections 17(1) and 17(4) of the Act to these acquisitions, thereby depriving the appellants of an opportunity to be heard under Section 5A of the Act.	Facts
Even before us, that is the main thrust of the arguments on behalf of the appellants.6.	Facts
The other major challenge opposing the acquisition related to the concept of public purpose.	Facts
It was tried to be suggested that this was in fact an acquisition without any public purpose for the Company J.P. Infratech Ltd.respondent No.5 and would be covered under Part VII of the Act.	Facts
In that, the learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants urged that there could be no dispensation with enquiry under Section 5A of the Act.	Facts
It was pointed out that the compensation was payable by the private party under the scheme and, therefore also, this could not be viewed as a public purpose.	Facts
It was also suggested that this was virtually a perpetual lease in favour of the Company and, therefore, the Company was getting deemed proprietary rights.7.	Facts
In the two impugned judgments, the Allahabad High Court has repelled all the challenges.	Facts
In fact in the earlier round of litigation that is in the Public Interest Litigation itself the Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court repelled the challenges to this Project which was then known as Taj Expressway Project and the land acquisition made therefor.8.	Facts
Before we approach the questions argued, it will be better to refer to the judgment of the Allahabad High Court in the Public Interest Litigation, which, in itself, refers the enquiry held by Mr. Justice Sidheshwar Narain (Retd.).	None
In fact one of the prayers in the Public Interest Litigation was for production of the Report dated 12.10.2006 of the Commission headed by Mr. Justice Narain.	None
The other prayers were to initiate de novo judicial enquiry by a sitting High Court Judge and further to issue a Writ of Mandamus declaring the alleged Enquiry Report as illegal, invalid and ineffective and not enforceable in the eyes of law and lastly to pass any other Writ, order or direction.	None
This Writ Petition was then amended and the Concession Agreement dated 7.2.2003 entered between the Taj Expressway Authority and the Jaiprakash Industries (hereinafter called the Company for short) also came to be challenged.	None
This Taj Expressway Authority was constituted under Section 3 of the U.P. Industrial Area Development Act, 1996 which later on was named as Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA).	None
The petitioners prayed for a declaration that this agreement was null and void.	None
Another prayer added by way of an amendment was for investigation by the special investigation team into the entire deal of Taj Expressway Project.	None
The High Court in its well considered judgment, took note of the three challenges by the petitioners to the said Commission of Enquiry Report.	None
The said challenges were (1) that the award of contract to the Company was activated by mala fides 2) that the tender process itself was faulty and 3) that the terms of contract were unconscionable and against the public interest.	None
All the three challenges were refuted by the Division Bench of the High Court by referring to the Report itself which was filed before it at the instance of the State Government.	None
It recorded a finding that there was no mala fide on the part of anybody.	None
The Commission had also come to the conclusion that the Agreement with the Company was arrived at after proper scrutiny on the part of the Government Officers and there was no mala fide on the alleged connection of one Shri Anup Mishra or his father with the Company.	None
The Division Bench affirmed this finding.	None
The Division Bench also recorded a finding that the petitioner therein was not able to place any other material on record to show that the process itself was faulty or that the terms of contract were unconscionable and against the public interest.	None
While considering the amendment made by the petitioner to the Writ Petition by which fresh challenges were thrown against the Agreement dated 7.2.2003, the Division Bench came to the conclusion that there was no procedural infirmity in the contract having been awarded to the Company.	None
The Division Bench then considered the other challenges namely 1) huge chunks of lands had been given to respondent No.2 on lease for 90 years at a very nominal lease rent.	None
Exemption of stamp duty has been given to respondent No.2 causing loss of revenue to the State exchequer.	None
The Division Bench in detail considered the nature of lease and the nature of the transaction.	None
For that it went on to analyze the whole Project which had the three objectives, namely (1) provide a fast moving corridor to minimize travel time (2) to connect the main township commercial centres on the Eastern side of Yamuna (3) to relieve the National Highway No.2 which was already congested and ran through the heart of cities like Faridabad, Ballabhgarh and Palwal.	None
The High Court then discussed the financial ramifications resulting out of the Agreement and then after referring various judgments of this Court, went on to decide the question whether before finalizing the contract in favour of respondent No. 2 Company, the State Government or the Taj Expressway Authority had undertaken the requisite research.	None
It went on to record a finding as found in the Commission of Enquiry that the authorities had examined all the aspects of the matter before issuing the bid document inviting offers.	None
It also recorded that there was proper publication of the Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) in various national Dailies and that 19 parties had responded to the NITs.	None
The High Court, therefore, recorded a finding that there was nothing shady and the entire process was transparent.	None
The High Court also registered a finding that it could not be said that undue concessions were given to the Company in view of the fact that all such concessions had already been spelt out in the bid document.	None
Thus, the High Court approved of the findings reached in the Commission of Enquiry by Mr. Justice Siddheshwar Narain (Retd.).	None
Ultimately, the High Court dismissed the Public Interest Litigation.	None
It is on this backdrop that number of Writ Petitions came to be filed again giving rise to the two impugned judgments.	None
Basically two questions emerge from the arguments made at the Bar before us.	Issue
They are1.	Issue
The acquisition itself cannot be said to be for the public purpose(a) as the object of this acquisition is not covered by the definition of public purpose in Section 3 (f) of the Land Acquisition Act.(b)	Issue
it cannot be said that this acquisition would come under Part II of the Land Acquisition Act and in fact it must be considered to be under Part VII of the Act since it virtually amounts to acquisition of land for J.P. Infratecha company(respondent No.5).(c)	Issue
the compensation for the land acquisition is coming wholly from the Jaypee Industries and not from the Government or from YEIDA and, therefore, it is not an acquisition for public purpose.(d) the acquisition for socalled interchange is not at all necessary and it is actually a colourable exercise of powers.2.	Issue
The application of Sections 17 (1) and 17 (4) of the Land Acquisition Act was wholly unnecessary and, therefore, illegal,(a) and, therefore, the Government could not have dispensed with the enquiry under Section 5 A of the Act.	Issue
Learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants argued in support of the above two main and the ancillary questions.	None
As against this, learned Counsel appearing for the State as also for the Company and YEIDA supported the acquisition and contended that it was futile to oppose the acquisition, particularly, when the acquisition was virtually accepted by all except a few, inasmuch as the learned Counsel contended that majority of the landlords have accepted the compensation also and have not challenged the acquisition in any manner.	None
It is only a few extremely insignificant pockets which are now caught in this litigation.	None
The learned Counsel have specifically averred that the whole process was extremely transparent and that there was necessity of this land considering the public purpose involved and that all care was taken to safeguard the interests of the farmers and that the creation of this Expressway and creation of five townships would immensely help the general public residing on the Eastern Bank of Yamuna particularly, and the residents of UP generally.	None
It is on these rival contentions that we have to proceed now.	None
Since the land acquisition exercise is for the Yamuna Expressway Project, it would be worthwhile to see some factual background thereof.	None
U.P. Industrial Area Development Act, 1976 came into force on 1.4.1976.	None
Section 3 thereof provides for constituting an authority by a notification.	None
The object of this legislation is planned development of certain notified areas in the State by building up integrated industrial townships.	None
The State Government is empowered thereunder to declare the industrial development area and this Act empowers the authority to acquire the land by direct purchase or through State (under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894).	None
It also requires preparing a Master Plan, to demarcate the sites into industrial, commercial, institutional, residential and other land use in accordance with the Master Plan.	None
Under Section 7 of the said Act, the authority is empowered to allot its properties, by way of lease or otherwise, on such terms and conditions as it may deem fit.	None
An authority called Taj Expressway Industrial Development Authority came to be constituted under this Act by a Notification dated 24.4.2001.	None
This Authority changed its nomenclature and became Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA for short) vide Notification dated 11.7.2008.	None
This was with intent to develop the Eastern Side of the river Yamuna by construction of a 6 lane Expressway joining Noida to Agra and also for development of five regions along the said Expressway into a planned industrial development area for residential, industrial, institutional or recreational purposes.	None
The industrial development area was also notified on 24.4.2001, which then comprised of 8 villages.	None
Later on, vide notification dated 22.8.2001, as many as 63 No. of villages including the village of some of the appellants were also included.	None
By further notifications, some more villages were also notified as part of industrial development area.	None
The area was in 4 districts, namely, Gautam Budh Nagar, Agra, Mathura and Aligarh.	None
After the constitution of the Authority (YEIDA), public notices for global tenders were issued in 2001 inviting bids from interested parties desirous of implementing the Project of the said 6 lane Expressway and the building of the townships on Build, Operate and Transfer model.	None
This Project, however, did not proceed, as there was no eligible bidder and ultimately, the selection process was dropped.	None
Subsequently, in November, 2002, fresh bids were invited on the same principles, but with an option either to enter into a joint venture (JV) with the YEIDA or to implement the said Project without any equity partition of the said Authority.	None
In the Bid Document, the necessity of the major highway connecting New Delhi with Mathura and Agra was reiterated with the objectives (i) to provide a fast moving corridor to minimize the travel time, (ii) to connect the main townships commercial centres on the Eastern Side of Yamuna, and (iii) to relieve NH2 which was already congested and ran through the heart of cities like Faridabad, Ballabhgarh and Palwal.	None
It was informed to the interested parties that the proposed Expressway was to be about 160 Kms.	None
in length shortening the distance between Noida and Agra with an estimated cost of US 350 million.	None
It was also informed that the Expressway was to pass through virgin area along the river Yamuna and that a band of 500 meters width of land at five or more locations, of which one location was to be in Noida or Greater Noida area along the Expressway, would be offered on acquisition cost along the corridor as an integral part of the Project.	None
It was further informed that in addition to the land for Expressway, 25 million square meters land along the same would be given at acquisition cost for development of the same for commercial, amusement, industrial, institutional and residential purpose.	None
Bids were invited from all the interested parties having experience in the construction development of infrastructure Projects including real estate development and it was informed that the selected developer would be offered 25 millions square meters of land for development on acquisition cost on lease for a period of 90 years.	None
It was also informed that the concession period would be for 7 years from the date of signing of the Concession Agreement and all the assets related to the Expressway were to stand transferred on the date of signing of the Concession Agreement in favour of such a successful bidder.	None
The Bid Document also provided that the successful bidder would have the right to levy, collect and retain toll from the public using the Expressway during the concession period.	None
Tender of Jaiprakash Industries Ltd. was accepted and thus they became the successful bidder as they had claimed the lowest concession period of 36 years.	None
The Concession Agreement dated 7.2.2003 also came to be executed between the parties.	None
However, before the work could start, the whole Project got stuck up in the litigation, upon which the Enquiry Commission was appointed by the State Government under the Chairmanship of Mr. Justice Siddheshwar Narain (Retd.).	None
Before that, two Commissions of sub enquiries were constituted.	None
While the Report of the first Commission was quashed by the Allahabad High Court, the second Commission of Enquiry could not proceed at all, as the Members had resigned.	None
Ultimately, Mr. Justice Siddheshwar Narain (Retd.) completed the enquiry and submitted his Report in October, 2006.	None
Thereafter, as has already been pointed out earlier, a Public Interest Litigation came to be filed by way of a Writ Petition before the Allahabad High Court, which was dismissed by the Allahabad High Court.	None
It was thereafter that the process of land acquisition commenced in September, 2007.	None
In the first phase, land for Expressway was acquired.	None
Subsequently, the acquisition process started for the land for development.	None
The first Writ Petition being Civil Misc.	None
Writ Petition No. 48978 of 2008 came to be filed by one Balbir Singh, challenging the Notification dated 15.10.2007 issued under Section 4 of the Act, as also the Notification dated 4.1.2008 issued under Section 6 of the Act.	None
Status quo order was passed on the said Writ Petition.	None
On its heels, other Writ Petitions were filed, the main Writ Petition being Civil Misc.	None
Writ Petition No. 31314 of 2009 filed by one Nand Kishore Gupta.	Decision
The status quo orders were passed even in that Writ Petition.	None
Ultimately, the Writ Petition of Balbir Singh was dismissed by a judgment dated 5.10.2009 and that of others including Nand Kishores came to be dismissed on 30.11.2009.	None
It is on this historical backdrop that we have now to consider the correctness or otherwise of these two judgments, which pertain to, more or the less, same subject, but with slight variation.	None
The Writ Petition filed by Balbir Singh proceeded, inter alia, on the grounds that acquisition was a colourable exercise of power and was one which should have been accomplished by complying with the provisions of Part VII of the Act as this was an acquisition for company.	None
By the judgment dated 5.10.2009, the High Court dismissed the Writ Petition holding that (a) the entire process of acquisition was in accordance with the provisions of the Act and this was not a colourable exercise of powers, (b) the land in instant case was indeed acquired for public purpose, namely, construction of Yamuna Expressway Project, (c) the land was not acquired for company and as such the procedure under Chapter VII was not applicable.	None
It was also urged in that case that the entire cost of the acquisition was to be borne by the Company and the Company had to pay the entire dues towards acquisition cost and, therefore, there was no public purpose in this acquisition and the socalled public purpose appearing in the Notification was a camouflage.	None
It was further urged that since even a part of compensation was not coming from the Government out of the public revenue or some fund controlled by the local authority, this acquisition was not for the public purpose.	None
In Balbir Singhs case, all these objections were dismissed.	None
More or the less, same contentions with some difference were raised in Nand Kishores case also, the judgment which also disposed of the Civil Misc.	None
Writ Petition No. 50474 of 2009 (Rajo Devi Ors.	Decision
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.), Civil Misc.	None
Writ Petition No. 35090 of 2009 (J.S. Horticulture Pvt.	None
Ltd.	None
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.), Civil Misc.	None
Writ Petition No. 51537 of 2009 (Bhupendra Singh Ors.	Decision
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.), Civil Misc.	None
Writ Petition No. 51543 of 2009 (Mukesh Singh Vs. State of U.P. Ors.), Civil Misc.	Decision
Writ Petition No. 51546 of 2009 (Vijay Singh Anr.	Decision
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.), Civil Misc.	None
Writ Petition No. 51551 of 2009 (Jagvir Singh Ors.	Decision
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.), Civil Misc.	None
Writ Petition No. 60587 of 2009 (Kadival Infrastructure Pvt.	Decision
Ltd. Anr.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.)	Reasoning
alongwith the main Writ Petition being Civil Misc.	None
Writ Petition No.31314 of 2009 (Nand Kishore Gupta Ors.	Decision
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.).	Reasoning
The individual grievances raised in all these Writ Petitions were dealt with and the challenges were rejected.	None
The two main points, as culled out by us, were dealt with as in Balbir Singhs case.	None
Insofar as the individual grievances are concerned, they were mostly in the nature of plea regarding the constructions having been there in this land required for interchange.	None
For example, in Nand Kishore Guptas case, it was claimed that there was cold storage of the petitioner No. 1 therein and shops in cold storage, a temple in plot No. 139, a weigh bridge (Dharm Kanta) on plot No. 122 and some of the plots were owned by Trishul Awas Sahkari Awas Samiti.	None
It was stated in Civil Misc.	None
Writ Petition No. 50474 of 2009 (Rajo Devi Ors.	Decision
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.) that the petitioners had a house and a boundary wall on some Khasras and some constructions on the others.	None
In Civil Misc.	None
Writ Petition No. 35090 of 2009 (J.S. Horticulture Pvt.	None
Ltd.	None
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.), it was urged that there was a 10X11 high boundary wall and constructed rooms inside a Goshala and 3 tube wells with several trees.	None
In Civil Misc.	None
Writ Petition No. 51537 of 2009 (Bhupendra Singh Ors.	Decision
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.), it was urged that this was an agricultural land and the petitioners therein depended on the same for their livelihood.	None
In still other Writ Petitions being Civil Misc.	None
Writ Petition No. 51543 of 2009 (Mukesh Singh Vs. State of U.P. Ors.), Civil Misc.	Decision
Writ Petition No. 51546 of 2009 (Vijay Singh Anr.	Decision
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.) and Civil Misc.	None
Writ Petition No. 51551 of 2009 (Jagvir Singh Ors.	Decision
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.), the same plea of cultivation was raised.	None
In Civil Misc.	None
Writ Petition No. 60587 of 2009 (Kadival Infrastructure Pvt.	Decision
Ltd. Anr.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.), the petitioners claimed that they had purchased 7 plots with the total area of 24060 sq. meters	None
and they were plots for industrial purposes and that the plot of Yashoda Devi was a fertile land.	None
The High Court has refuted all these contentions by giving good reasons.	Reasoning
We will not go into these individual cases once the High Court has decided not to entertain these plea and, in our opinion, correctly.	Reasoning
After all, this was an acquisition for building up a highway and the abovementioned Writ Petitions pertained to the land required for interchange.	Reasoning
It is obvious that the alignment of the highway cannot be changed, as its design has been prepared after consideration of so many factors by the experts in building the road.	Reasoning
Its direction or alignment, therefore, cannot be changed, with the result, the area which is required for interchange, also cannot be changed.	Reasoning
This is a typical example of the individual having to sacrifice his land for the public good.	Reasoning
There can be no dispute that this road would add to the betterment of the citizens of the East Yamuna area in particular and Uttar Pradesh in general.	Reasoning
This is apart from the fact that the majority of the persons whose lands have been acquired, have either not objected to it or have accepted the compensation without any demur.	Reasoning
It will, therefore, not be possible for us to go into these individual grievances, which have been rightly rejected by the High Court.	Reasoning
In fact, in Balbir Singhs case, it was pointed out that out of the 12,315 affected farmers in 133 villages over the total area of 1,638 hectares of the Expressway, 11387 have already received compensation and only 142 farmers have raised the issues.	Reasoning
The High Court has rightly held that the private interest is always affected to some extent in such large schemes requiring the acquisition of land.	Reasoning
The High Court has rightly held that a holistic view had to be taken to look for an all round development without forgetting about our heritage, culture and traditions.	Reasoning
We also, therefore, would not entertain the objections, feebly raised before us, individually.	Reasoning
We have now to see as to whether the challenge posed by the appellants herein about this acquisition not being for public purpose is justified or not.	Reasoning
Shri Ranjit Kumar, Shri Debol Banerjee, learned Senior Counsel and Ms. Meenakshi Arora, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants, vehemently urged that this acquisition, in the first place, is colourable exercise of power.	Reasoning
All the learned Counsel urged that the very nature the whole transaction showed was that the whole acquisition was tailor made for the respondent Company.	Reasoning
The learned Counsel further urged that it was meant only for the benefit of the Company, inasmuch as, though the acquisition should have been made under the provisions of Part VII of the Act, it was carried out in terms of the provisions of the Part II of the Act, citing this to be an acquisition for public purpose.	Reasoning
According to the learned Counsel, there already existed a road which was a functional road and Yamuna Expressway is only an excuse to develop the feeder road to connect the five proposed townships.	Reasoning
The learned Counsel urged that the huge land of 25 million square meters has virtually been handed over to the respondent Company on a platter and, therefore, all this exercise was clearly not for the public purpose.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further urged that the socalled Concession Agreement dated 7.2.2003 was onesided, inasmuch as, even if it was terminated, the land which was given to the Company for development, would have remained unaffected.	None
It was further urged that considering the length of the lease period of 90 years, the land was virtually given to the Company for ever, and it was nothing but transferring the same in favour of the Company.	Reasoning
It was then pointed out that it was only the Expressway which would revert back to the Government after 36 years, but not the land measuring about 25 million square meters, which would be wholly managed by the Company.	Reasoning
In fact, the learned Counsel argued that this cannot be said to be an integrated Project, as the land for Expressway and the land for development have been treated on an entirely different and unequal footing.	Reasoning
It was also pointed out that the present purpose was not a public purpose as envisaged in Section 3(f) of the Act.	Reasoning
The learned Counsel pointed out that from the Agreement itself, it is clear that the entire cost of the acquisition is going to be borne by the Company and, therefore, there can be no doubt that the acquisition is for the Company and not for the public purpose.	Reasoning
The learned Counsel argued that merely because the Company has paid the entire cost of acquisition alongwith Rs.100/ per hectare per year by way of premium, it cannot be denied that it is only the private respondent who is bearing the entire cost of the acquisition and the State Government YEIDA has not contributed anything.	Arguments of Petitioner
Heavily relying on the decision in Pratibha Nema Ors.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of M.P. Ors. 2003 (10) SCC 626 , the learned Counsel argued that this issue needs to be addressed by this Court on the backdrop of this case.	Arguments of Petitioner
As against this, the learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the State, as also for the Company and YEIDA, pointed out that this cannot be said to be a colourable exercise of power.	Arguments of Respondent
They also pointed out that there cannot be any dispute about the utility of this Project and its benefits to the public.	Arguments of Respondent
They further pointed out that the whole process has been extremely transparent.	Arguments of Respondent
They also pointed out that this acquisition cannot, under any circumstances, come within Part VII of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel further pointed out that the five developed parcels of the land were going to revert to the acquiring body after 90 years, and the period of 90 years cannot provide a permanency to the whole transaction.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel urged that the State ultimately was going to receive a 6 lane Expressway which was 160 Kilometers long alongwith five developed parcels of land on the Eastern Side of Yamuna river.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel also pointed out that all this was going to help the industrialization and the overall development of that area in particular and the State in general, apart from the fact that this highway would reduce the traffic congestion presently felt on N.H.2.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel pointed out that it will also release the congestion, as it exists in the cities and would help smooth movement of people, goods and material.25.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel also urged that the creation of five planned parcels of land under the Scheme would immensely help the trading activities in the State and would be extremely useful for the citizens.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel further pointed out that the land would be put to the industrial, commercial, residential, amusement or institutional purposes which would ultimately serve the public purpose.	Arguments of Respondent
Lastly, on this question, the learned Counsel urged that it was a misnomer to say that the compensation was coming only from the private coffers of the Company.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel also referred to the nature of the agreement i.e. the BOT contract.	Arguments of Respondent
The contention raised was that a BOT contract, by its nature cannot be equated to or with an acquisition for a Company.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned Counsel, all that the Government was doing was merely choosing a third party agency to implement the work of building, designing, financing or running the Project, and that the Government was utilizing the expertise and enterprise of a third party.	Arguments of Respondent
Our attention was also invited to two decisions of this Court concerning the BOT contracts and the allegations made relating to them.	None
The decisions were State of Karnataka Anr.	None
Vs.	Reasoning
All India Manufacturers Organization Ors. 2006 (4) SCC 683 and Sooraram Pratap Reddy Ors.	Reasoning
Vs. District Collector, Ranga Reddy District Ors. etc. etc. 2008 (9) SCC 552 .	None
The first and foremost thing which we must keep in mind while deciding these matters is that at least in the present two matters (Balbir Singhs case decided on 5.10.2009 and Nand Kishores case decided on 30.11.2009), the subject related only to the acquisition of few hectares of land as compared to the acquisition of large chunk which has not been challenged.	Reasoning
Further, it is an admitted position that majority of the acquisition proceedings are over.	Reasoning
In Balbir Singhs case also, the persons who challenged the Project, were 9 in number, owning about 7.09 hectares of land i.e. about 0.42 of the total land.	Reasoning
It has been strongly argued on behalf of the State, the Company and YEIDA that the major activity of land acquisition process is over.	Reasoning
It has been noted in Balbir Singhs case that out of the 12,315 affected farmers in 133 villages over the total area of 1,638 hectares of the Expressway, 11387 have already received compensation and only 142 farmers out of such a large number of villages have raised the issues, leaving 139 farmers who had not taken the compensation.	Reasoning
This is apart from the fact that only 9 Writ Petitioners came in that Writ Petition.	Reasoning
The story in Nand Kishores Writ Petition which was disposed of by the High Court alongwith other Writ Petitions is no different.	Reasoning
The learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants could not deny the fact that the total number of petitioners concerned in these acquisition proceedings, coming up before the High Court, was extremely insignificant as compared to those who had accepted the compensation.	Reasoning
Of course, that by itself may not be the only reason to hold against the appellants (petitioners), however, that fact will have to be kept in mind while deciding the issues which cover the whole acquisition process, which acquisition is for the purpose of development of 25 million square meters of land.	Reasoning
The High Court has also noticed this aspect.	Reasoning
We have mentioned this aspect only with a limited objective of showing that the criticism against the whole scheme which would invalidate the acquisition would be difficult to be accepted, particularly in this case, in view of the fact that majority of the land owners have parted with possession, taken the compensation and thus, the whole scheme has progressed to a substantial level, wherefrom it will be extremely difficult now to turn back to square one.28.	Reasoning
We must point out that at the time when the Project conceived in 2001, the present Company was not in existence.	Reasoning
It came in existence only later on.	Reasoning
This is an admitted position also.	Reasoning
Therefore, it cannot be said that the whole Project was envisaged keeping this Company in view.	Reasoning
That would be the first reason to reject the argument that the whole scheme was a result of colourable exercise of power.	Reasoning
We also cannot ignore the fact that a fullfledged enquiry was got done by the State by constituting a Commission of Enquiry under the Chairmanship of Mr. Justice Sidheshwar Narain.	Reasoning
The said Commission of Enquiry submitted its Report in October, 2006 and it was duly accepted by both the Houses of the Legislature of the State of Uttar Pradesh.	Reasoning
Again, we also cannot ignore that the aspects of the transparency have been examined by the Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court in a P.I.L., which was dismissed by a well considered judgment, which remained unchallenged.	Reasoning
We have already made reference to that judgment.	Reasoning
Nobody has so far argued that any specific partial treatment was offered to the Company nor has it been pointed out at any stage that there was anything amiss with the tendering process or that the tender of contract to the Company herein was a foregone conclusion.	Reasoning
We, therefore, cannot subscribe to the contention that this acquisition was a colourable exercise of power.	Reasoning
We must say that there was a full transparency in the whole process and the whole process was checked, rechecked and rerechecked, leaving no scope to infer any bias in favour of the Company.29.	Reasoning
It was pointed out that initially the award was preceded by issuance of an advertisement in the leading newspapers throughout the country.	Reasoning
It was also pointed out that the offers were invited on the basis of a global tender and as many as 19 parties entered the fray, and that it is only thereafter that the present respondent Company was chosen for the award of the tender.	Reasoning
Again, the essential features of the transaction appear to be that (i) Project was to be implemented on the Build Operate and Transfer model, (ii) Project conceived of the construction of the Expressway as well as development of land parcels at five different locations and (iii) the land for development was to be provided to the selected bidder on a lease of 90 years upon payment of acquisition cost and necessary lease rentals.	Reasoning
There was, thus, a complete transparency in the whole affair.	Reasoning
It is also to be seen that this was not a case where the exercise of power of eminent domain by the State was for any of the purposes set down in Section 40 of the Act.	Reasoning
Further, it is not as if the power of acquisition was exercised by the State Government for the work or Project of the Company.	Reasoning
Lastly, it is not a case where the power of exercise was exercised by the State Government so that the acquired land was to belong or vest permanently in the Company for its own purpose.	Reasoning
It was pointed out that the lease is going to be for 90 years after which the whole land is going to revert back to the State Government, so also the whole land acquired and used actually for the purpose of the highway would also go back to the State after the period of 36 years, during which the Company would have the right to levy and collect the toll.	Reasoning
It is not as if a public purpose is relevant in Part VII, where under Section 39, the previous consent of appropriate Government is required for execution of an agreement between the Government and the Company.	None
Section 40 of the Act then puts a specific rider that the State Government shall not give the consent unless it is satisfied of any of the contingencies described in subSections (a), (aa) and (b) thereof, which are as under Previous enquiry (1) Such consent shall not be given unless the appropriate Government be satisfied, either on the report of the Collector under Section 5A, Subsection (2), or by an enquiry held as hereinafter provided, (a) that the purpose of the acquisition is to obtain land for the erection of dwelling houses for workmen employed by the Company or for the provision of amenities directly connected therewith, or(aa) that such acquisition is needed for the construction of some building or work for a Company which is engaged or is taking steps for engaging itself in any industry or work which is for a public purpose, or(b) that such acquisition is needed for the construction of some work, and that such work is likely to prove useful to the public.	Reasoning
This would suggest that even when the acquisition is meant for the Company, the concept of public purpose has to be at the back of mind of the acquiring body like Government.	Reasoning
Here, of course, there is no question of any agreement with the Company as the three eventualities described under Section 40 of the Act are not available for the simple reason that the basic idea for the acquisition under Part VII of the Act is the total transfer of the ownership of the acquiring land in favour of the Company.	Reasoning
That is obviously not present here.	Reasoning
We do not see any factual background for holding that any agreement was contemplated in between the State Government and the Company or for that matter, YEIDA and the Company, as envisaged in Sections 39, 40 and 41 of the Act.	Reasoning
It was tried to be canvassed before us that there would be a difference in concepts of a public purpose and the work useful to the public.	Reasoning
We are not much impressed by this argument in view of the fact that there is absolutely no evidence to suggest that this is an acquisition for the Company, basically on account of the fact that the acquired land is not to vest with the Company.	Reasoning
This was clearly a Project conceived and justified by the State Government, while the concessionaire was to be chosen only to implement the Project.	Reasoning
The Project was going to be implemented on the basis of principles of BOT.	Reasoning
Therefore, after the operating period is over, the assets of the Project were to be transferred to the State Government.	Reasoning
There was going to be no vesting of land as in case that if the acquisition was being effected under Part VII of the Act.	Reasoning
We, therefore, do not accept the argument that this was either a colourable exercise of power or was meant for the Company.	Reasoning
We are not impressed by the argument that this was an acquisition for the Company.	Reasoning
The High Court, in Balbir Singhs judgment, has correctly come to the conclusion that this acquisition was not meant only for the Company and on that count, it could not be said that this is not for the public purpose.	Reasoning
The learned Counsel, however, vehemently argued that the whole compensation had come from the Company and, therefore, this acquisition cannot be said to be for a public purpose.	Reasoning
We shall tackle this point a little later.	Reasoning
However, before we proceed to do that, we must express on the utility of the Expressway, which was conceived, as also the development of five parcels of land.30.	Reasoning
During the debate, our attention was invited to Section 3(f) of the Act, which contains a definition for public purpose.	Reasoning
It was pointed out that where the acquisition is for the Company, it cannot amount to a public purpose.	Reasoning
There can be no dispute about this proposition that where the acquisition of land is for the companies, it cannot amount to a public purpose.	Reasoning
It was, therefore, our endeavour to find out whether this land was for the Company and we are quite satisfied with a finding recorded by the High Court that this acquisition was not for the Company but was for the public purpose.	Reasoning
The Expressway is a work of immense public importance.	Reasoning
The State gains advantages from the construction of an Expressway and so does the general public.	Reasoning
Creation of a corridor for fast moving traffic resulting into curtailing the traveling time, as also the transport of the goods, would be some factors which speak in favour of the Project being for the public purpose.	Reasoning
Much was stated about the 25 million square meters of land being acquired for the five parcels of land.	Reasoning
In fact, in our opinion, as has rightly been commented upon by the High Court, the creation of the five zones for industry, residence, amusement etc., would be complimentary to the creation of the Expressway.	Reasoning
It cannot be forgotten that the creation of land parcels would give impetus to the industrial development of the State creating more jobs and helping the economy and thereby helping the general public.	Reasoning
There can be no doubt that the implementation of the Project would result in coming into existence of five developed parcels centers in the State for the use of the citizens.	Reasoning
There shall, thus, be the planned development of this otherwise industrially backward area.	Reasoning
The creation of these five parcels will certainly help the maximum utilization of the Expressway and the existence of an Expressway for the fast moving traffic would help the industrial culture created in the five parcels.	Reasoning
Thus, both will be complimentary to each other and can be viewed as parts of an integral scheme.	Reasoning
Therefore, it cannot be said that it is not a public purpose.31.	Reasoning
We must, at this stage, take into account the argument that the whole compensation is coming wholly from the Company and not from the Government or from YEIDA.	Reasoning
The appellants invited our attention to Clause 4.1(d) of the Concession Agreement.	Reasoning
On that basis, it was argued that the Company has paid the compensation cost and, therefore, the acquisition is clearly covered under Part VII of the Act, and there may be no public purpose if the acquisition is made for the Company and it is the Company who has to shell out the whole compensation.	Reasoning
Now, this argument is clearly incorrect.	Reasoning
Even if we accept for the sake of argument that all this compensation is coming from the Company, we must firstly bear it in mind that the Company gets no proprietary or ownership rights over the Project assets.	Reasoning
Now, if it is presumed that the compensation is coming from the Company, then it will have to be held that the whole assets would go to the Company.	Reasoning
At least that is envisaged in Part VII of the Act.	Reasoning
Here, that is not the case.	Reasoning
The assets are to revert back to the acquiring body or, as the case may be, the Government.	Reasoning
Even the lands which are utilized for the construction of the Expressway are to go back to the Government barely after 36 years i.e. after the Company has utilized its rights to recover the toll on the Expressway.	Reasoning
Secondly, it must be borne in mind that the Concession Agreement has been executed in February, 2003, whereas the acquisition process started somewhere in the month of September, 2007.	Reasoning
When the Concession Agreement was executed, the cost factor was not known.	Reasoning
The acquiring body was only to make available the land to the concessionaire to implement the Project.	Reasoning
There would be number of difficulties arising, as for example, it would be clearly not contemplated that the land would be made available without any value or that there would no scheme for the State Government for recovering the expenses that it would incur in obtaining the land.	Reasoning
The learned Counsel appearing for the State as also for the Company and YEIDA argued that in order to overcome and iron out such difficulties, the Agreement provides that the land would be leased on a premium equivalent to the acquisition cost.	Reasoning
This argument proceeds on the basis of Clause 4.3 C of the Concession Agreement.	Reasoning
It is to be noted then that the premium of the land was not going to be just the acquisition cost, but also the lease rent of Rs.100/ per hectare.	None
Therefore, the State Government was to earn Rs.100/ per hectare for the total acquired land, which was about 25 million square meters over and above the compensation to be decided.	None
The mention of the compensation amount in addition to the lease money of Rs.100/ per hectare would clearly provide that the whole compensation was not going to be paid by the Company alone.	None
This is apart from the fact that through this agreement, only the extent of the compensation payable by the Company to YEIDA was decided.	Reasoning
However, once all the amounts went to the coffers of YEIDA, it would lose its independent character as a premium.	Reasoning
When it goes into the coffers of YEIDA, it is the YEIDA who would make the payments of the estimated compensation and thereby it would be as if the compensation is paid not by the Company, but by YEIDA.	Reasoning
The respondents have relied on the law laid down in Pratibha Nemas Case cited supra, more particularly, paragraphs 24 and 25 therein.	Reasoning
The respondents also argued relying upon the decision in Naihati Municipality Ors.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
Chinmoyee Mukherjee Ors. 1996 (10) SCC 632 .	Reasoning
The respondents argued that the law laid down in Pratibha Nemas Case (cited supra) emanates from the judgment in Naihati Municipality Ors.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
Chinmoyee Mukherjee Ors.	Reasoning
(cited supra).32.	Reasoning
Two judgments in State of Karnataka Ors.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
All India Manufacturers Organization Ors. cited supra and Sooraram Pratap Reddy Ors.	Reasoning
Vs. District Collector, Ranga Reddy District Ors. etc. etc. (cited supra) were pressed in service by the respondents.	Reasoning
The first judgment in State of Karnataka Ors.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
All India Manufacturers Organization Ors.	Reasoning
(cited supra) pertain to BangaloreMysore Infrastructure Corridor Project).	None
While considering what the public purpose was, this Court in paragraphs 76, 77, 78 and 79 took stock of the contention, whereby it was suggested that land far away from the actual alignment of the road and periphery had been acquired and, therefore, even if the implementation of the highway Project was assumed to be for the public purpose, the acquisition of the land far away therefrom would not amount to a public purpose nor would it be covered by the provisions of the Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Act, 1966 (KIAD Act).	None
In the present case also, it was argued that the lands which are being acquired for the interchange would not at all be necessary.	None
Further, it was argued that the five parcels of land which is being acquired for the development of five industrial townships, could not be said for the public purpose nor could it be said to be a part of the present integrated scheme.	None
This Court had refuted this argument holding that even in case of BangaloreMysore highway Project, the lands even little away from the main alignment of the road, had to be a part of this Project and the Project was an integrated infrastructure development Project and not merely a highway Project.	None
It was conceived originally as the BangaloreMysore Infrastructure Corridor Project, which conceived of the development of roads between Bangalore and Mysore, for which there were several interchanges in and around the periphery of the city of Bangalore, together with numerous developmental infrastructure activities alongwith the highway at several points.	None
The situation is no different in the present case.	None
Therefore, the contention that this acquisition was not for public purpose, is rejected.	None
In Sooraram Pratap Reddy Ors.	None
Vs. District Collector, Ranga Reddy District Ors. etc. etc. (cited supra), same question cropped up which has been mentioned in Paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 of the judgment suggesting that there was no public purpose and in fact, it was an acquisition for a private Company under Part VII of the Act and, therefore, the power of eminent domain would have no application to such case.	None
The contentions raised in that judgment in paragraphs 16, 17 and 18 are almost similar to the contentions raised herein.	None
The Court has extensively dealt with the question of public purpose in paragraph 66 and has taken stock of practically all the cases till paragraph 109 therein.	None
It will not be necessary for us to repeat all the case law and the questions raised and considered in these paragraphs, such as industrial policy of the State, acquisition for Company etc.	None
In fact, while considering the contention regarding the industrial policy of the State, the Court has taken into consideration the oftquoted case of Dhampur Sugar (Kashipur) Ltd.	None
Vs.	Reasoning
State of Uttaranchal Ors. 2007 (8) SCC 418 , where this Court has come to the conclusion that in the absence of illegality or violation of law, a Court of law will not interfere in the policy matters.	None
Similar is the case here, where the development of the industrial infrastructure along the Expressway for the overall betterment of the region and further for the industrialization of the otherwise backward region of Uttar Pradesh, was considered as a policy.	None
In this judgment again, the Court has extensively considered the question as to whether and under what circumstances, the acquisition could be said to be the acquisition for the Company.	None
In that, the Court has also considered the decision in Babu Barkya Thakur Vs. State of Bombay AIR 1960 SC 1203 .	None
The Court quoted the observations in the aforementioned decision in Babu Barkya Thakur Vs. State of Bombay (cited supra) to the following effect These requirements indicate that the acquisition for a Company also is in substance for a public purpose inasmuch as it cannot be seriously contended that constructing dwelling houses, and providing amenities for the benefit of the workmen employed by it and construction of some work of public utility do not serve a public purpose.	None
We have already considered this question that in the present case, there is nothing to indicate that the acquisition is for the Company i.e. for Jaiprakash Industries Ltd.	None
It is only, therefore, that we are at pains to point out that the Government was only using the Company for implementing its policy.	None
In the aforementioned judgment of Sooraram Pratap Reddy Ors.	Reasoning
Vs. District Collector, Ranga Reddy District Ors. etc. etc. (cited supra), Honble Thakker, J. has also referred to the decision in Pandit Jhandu Lal Vs. State of Punjab AIR 1961 SC 343 , where the acquisition was for construction of houses by members of Thapar Industries Cooperative Housing Society Ltd., Yamuna Nagar.	None
The challenge was that there was noncompliance of the provisions of Part VII of the Act, though the acquisition was for the Company under Part VII of the Act.	None
The High Court, in that case, held that the acquisition was for a public purpose and there was no need to comply with the provisions of Part VII of the Act.	None
In fact, practically all the decisions on the subject of acquisition for the Company and public purpose have been considered in this judgment of Sooraram Pratap Reddy Ors.	None
Vs. District Collector, Ranga Reddy District Ors. etc. etc. (cited supra), which itself is a locus classicus.	None
Ultimately, this Court came to the conclusion that the acquisition made by the State of Andhra Pradesh could not be faulted, as it was in pursuance of policy decision for development of the city of Hyderabad and in pursuance of that policy, an integrated Project was taken up for development of the city of Hyderabad into a businesscumleisure tourism infrastructure centre.	None
The Court also came to the conclusion that the Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure and Investment Corporation (APIIC) in the reported decision was a nodal agency like YEIDA in the present case which was to generate the revenue and help the development of infrastructure for industrialization of the area.	None
The Court also recognized that such instrumentality of State would have the power of eminent domain.	None
Like the present case, the Court held the Project to be an integrated and indivisible Project.	None
We have no doubt that in the present case also, the Expressway as well as the five parcels which are to be developed are part of an integrated and indivisible Project.	None
In the reported judgment of Sooraram Pratap Reddy Ors.	Reasoning
Vs. District Collector, Ranga Reddy District Ors. etc. etc. (cited supra), it has also been found that the entire amount of the compensation was to be paid by the State agency APIIC, just like in the present case, where the entire amount is to be paid by YEIDA, which agency is working as a nodal agency for the execution of the Project.	None
The Court has also found that where the power of eminent domain is exercised mala fide or for collateral purposes and de hors the Act or in an irrational or unreasonable manner or when the purpose is no public purpose and the fraud on statute is apparent, a Writ Court can undoubtedly interfere.	None
It has been found very specifically here that the present matter is not suffering from the above defects.	None
In this judgment, the subject of eminent domain has been discussed and considered with thoroughness and all the ramifications of the principle of eminent domain have been discussed.	None
We have already culled out the principles emanating from this decision in the earlier part of this judgment and even at the cost of repetition, we may say that this judgment is practically, the law setter on the subject of eminent domain, as also on the other allied subjects of acquisition.	None
The judgment has also explained the concept of public purpose, which has been held to be wider than public necessity.	None
The judgment proceeds on a basis that merely because the benefit goes to a particular section of the society, the acquisition does not cease to be for the public purpose.	None
It has been specifically held that where the State is satisfied about the existence of a public purpose, the acquisition would be governed by Part II of the Act, as has happened in the present matter.	None
The judgment in Sooraram Pratap Reddy Ors.	None
Vs. District Collector, Ranga Reddy District Ors. etc. etc. (cited supra) is an authoritative pronouncement on the mode of payment, as also on the construction of Sections 40 and 41 of the Act.	None
In fact, this judgment is a complete answer to the argument of the appellants that this acquisition is not for public purpose.	None
The respondents then fall back upon the nature of the transaction, saying that since the whole transaction is on the BOT basis, the Government has merely chosen a third party agency to implement the Project instead of taking up itself the task of building, designing, financing or running the Project.	Reasoning
It was pointed out that in such contracts, the assets did not go to the private enterprise which was chosen by the Government.	Reasoning
On the other hand, the assets revert to the Government and, therefore, the BOT Project can never be akin to the acquisition of land for a Company under Part VII of the Act, where the land and the assets vest and belong to the Company.	Reasoning
The respondents argued that when a BOT contract is tested in the light of the provisions of Part VII of the Act, as also the Land Acquisition (Companies) Rules, 1963, it would come out that there has to be an agreement between the State and the Company, which necessarily provides for the payment of cost of acquisition to the Government.	Reasoning
It must entail the transfer of such land to the Company.	Reasoning
Similarly, under Rule 5 of the Rules of 1963, the agreement must itself make provision that the land will be utilized only for the purposes for which it was acquired and if the Company commits breach of any condition of the agreement, the Government would be entitled to declare the transfer of land to it to be null and void, so also if the Company fails to utilize the entire land acquired, the unutilized portion would revert to the Government.	Reasoning
The respondents argued that in a BOT contract, the land is only leased to a third party agency for the purposes of implementation of the Project.	Reasoning
There is no occasion for declaring the transfer of land to be null and void.	Reasoning
There would also be no occasion for reversion of the utilized land of the State Government.	Reasoning
The respondents, therefore, argued that a BOT contract can never be contemplated as falling under Part VII of the Act.	None
Some other decisions which were pressed in service by the appellants are Smt.	None
Somavanti Ors.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
The State of Punjab Ors.	Reasoning
AIR 1963 SC 151 , more particularly, the observations in paragraph 40 therein, where the Constitution Bench of this Court observed that if the purpose of acquisition is not related to a public purpose, then a question may well arise whether in making the declaration there has been on the part of the Government, a fraud on the power conferred on it by the Act.	None
We have already discussed the factual situation here for pointing out that this acquisition was indeed for the public purpose and cannot be held to be for respondent Company.	None
In that view, the criticism is not justified.	Reasoning
The decision in Pandit Jhandu Lal Vs. State of Punjab (cited supra) was also referred to and, more particularly, the observations in Paragraph 8 therein.	Reasoning
There can be no dispute about the principles laid down however, as we have already pointed out, this case has been thoroughly considered in Sooraram Pratap Reddy Ors.	Reasoning
Vs. District Collector, Ranga Reddy District Ors. etc. etc. (cited supra).	Reasoning
We have already returned a finding that the compensation in this case does not come from the respondent Company alone.	Reasoning
We approve of the finding returned by the High Court in that behalf.	Reasoning
During the debate, the decision in Devinder Singh Ors.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of Punjab Ors.	Reasoning
2008(1)	Reasoning
SCC 728 was also referred to.	Reasoning
It was urged that there was a conflict in this decision and the decision in Pratibha Nemas Case (cited supra).	Reasoning
This was a case where the petitioners who were the owner of the agricultural lands, had challenged the acquisition of lands for	Reasoning
M s. International Tractors Ltd.	Reasoning
It was claimed that the land was being acquired for public purpose i.e. setting up the Ganesha Project of M s. International Tractors Ltd. at various villages.	Reasoning
The High Court had held that the land acquisition was for public purpose.	Reasoning
This Court explained the public purpose as defined in Section 3(f) of the Act and noted that the aforementioned Ganesha Project was not a Project of the State, but the one undertaken by the Company M s. International Tractors Ltd.	Reasoning
The Court then went on to consider Sections 40 and 41 of the Act alongwith Rule 4 of the Land Acquisition (Companies) Rules, 1963 and came to the conclusion that the same could not be a public purpose as the whole compensation was coming from the coffers of the Company.	Reasoning
In that view, the Court further came to the conclusion that the State not having followed the provisions of Sections 40 and 41 of the Act, the whole process had suffered illegality.	None
The Court also considered the decision in Pratibha Nemas Case (cited supra) and distinguished the same by making a comment to the following effect But we must hasten to add that the Bench did not have any occasion to consider the question as to whether the State is entitled to take recourse to the provisions of both Part II and Part VII of the Act simultaneously.	None
The Court, however, refused to go into the nicety of the question and observed that in a case of acquisition for a public Company, public purpose is not to be assumed and the point of distinction between acquisition of lands under Part II and Part VII of the Act would be the source of funds to cover the cost of acquisition.	None
The Court also considered the judgment of this Court in Smt.	Reasoning
Somavanti Ors.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
The State of Punjab Ors.	Reasoning
(cited supra), Jage Ram Ors.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of Haryana Ors. 1971 (1) SCC 671 and Shyam Behari Ors.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of Madhya Pradesh Ors.	Reasoning
AIR 1965 SC 427 .	Reasoning
Ultimately, the Court came to the conclusion that the necessary provisions not having been found, the view of the High Court was not correct, whereby it had upheld the land acquisition, holding it to be for the public purpose.	Reasoning
We have closely seen the judgment however, the factual situation in the judgment is quite different.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the judgment will not help the appellants to contend that the present land acquisition is not for public purpose.	Reasoning
We also do not think that there is any serious conflict between the decision in Pratibha Nemas Case (cited supra) and the decision in Devinder Singh Ors.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of Punjab Ors.	Reasoning
(cited supra), so as to require a reference to the larger Bench.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the decision in Pratibha Nemas Case (cited supra) applies to the fact situation in this case.	Reasoning
Therefore, considering the overall factual situation, we are of the opinion that the High Court was right in holding that the acquisition was made for the public purpose.	Reasoning
We find from the order of the High Court that the High Court has considered the question of public purpose keeping in mind the correct principles of law.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the contention raised by the learned Counsel for the appellants that this acquisition was not for the public purpose for various reasons which we have discussed, is not correct.38.	Reasoning
This takes us to the next point pertaining to the application of Sections 17(1) and 17(4) of the Act.	Reasoning
The learned Counsel for the appellants have vociferously urged that there was no necessity whatsoever to apply the urgency clause to these acquisitions and further to avoid the enquiry under Section 5A of the Act.	Reasoning
According to the learned Counsel, this dispensation of Section 5A enquiry was not only unjust, but added to the sufferings of the appellants who had lost their fertile land.	Reasoning
It was pointed out that this Project was slumbering since 2001 and it was in order to infuse fictitious urgency that a reference to the Commonwealth Games was made.	Reasoning
According to the appellants, Right to be heard was akin to the Fundamental Rights and its breach has rendered the whole acquisition exercise illegal.	Reasoning
Numbers of authorities were relied upon by the appellants.	Reasoning
The respondents, on the other hand, argued that there was material available before the Government justifying the invocation of the urgency clause.	Reasoning
The respondents argued that, in fact, the High Court has returned the finding that there was material before the State Government for dispensing with the enquiry under Section 5A of the Act and that finding was based on the examination by the High Court of the records of the State Government.	Reasoning
It was pointed out that going through the ordinary procedure for acquisition of land would have taken years for disposal of the objections while land was urgently required for public purpose, in this case, the construction of interchange under the Yamuna Expressway Project, which was absolutely essential for the purposes of running the highway.	Reasoning
It was also pointed out by the respondents that because of the unnecessary litigation in the enquiries, the Project was hopelessly delayed and the cost had gone up from Rs.1,700 crores to whopping Rs.9,700 crores.	Reasoning
It was also further pointed out that any waste of time would have invited the encroachments on the land, which would have added to the further trouble.	Reasoning
The enormousness of the Project which required acquisition of 1,604 hectares of land involving 12,283 farmers, would have taken years if the enquiry under Section 5A was permitted and thereby, the cost would have still further soared up.	Reasoning
Numbers of authorities were relied upon by the parties.39.	None
Before considering the issue, we must take stock of the finding returned by the High Court.	Reasoning
In the judgment in Nand Kishore Gupta Ors.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.	Reasoning
(Civil Misc.	Reasoning
Writ Petition No.31314 of 2009), the High Court took stock of the allegations regarding malafides and dispensing with the enquiry under Section 5A of the Act by referring to Paragraph Nos. 20, 21, 28, 29, 30, 31 and 32 of the Reply filed on behalf of the State Government through an affidavit of one Shri Vinod Kumar Singh, ADM, Land Acquisition, Agra, wherein it was pointed out that the Project was on the mammoth scale and there was a great deal of possibility of encroachments if the Project was allowed to linger.	Reasoning
The High Court took note of the contention that YEIDA deposited 70 of the estimated compensation on 29.5.2009 itself, since 10 of the estimated compensation was already deposited by the acquiring body (YEIDA).	Reasoning
The High Court then referred to the various clauses of the Concession Agreement like Clause Nos. 2.1, 2.2, 3.1, 3.2, 3.6 and 4.1 (a), (b), (c) (d) to know about the exact nature of the job which was required to be done for building the Expressway.	Reasoning
It was after this that the High Court had recorded a finding that the integrated Project was to cover a large area of land and the requirement was of 25 million square meters of land to be acquired.	Reasoning
The High Court, therefore, noted the plea raised to the effect that the State Government took correct decision to invoke the urgency clause, as on an enquiry into disposal of individual objections as contemplated under Section 5A of the Act, the Project itself would have lost all value and efficacy.	Reasoning
The High Court also noted the plea raised by YEIDA and the State Government about the likelihood of encroachment.	Reasoning
The High Court then referred to the two decisions of this Court in Sheikhar Hotels Gulmohar Enclave Anr.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of Uttar Pradesh Ors. 2008(14) SCC 716 and First Land Acquisition Collector Ors.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
Nirodhi Prakash Gangoli Anr.	Reasoning
2002 (4) SCC 160 .	Reasoning
The High Court also referred to the counter affidavit of one Shri V.C. Srivastava, Addl.	Reasoning
General Manager, Jaypee Infratech Ltd. (owned by Jaiprakash Industries Ltd.).	Reasoning
The High Court then took stock of the plea raised on behalf of the respondents on the basis of more than 25 judgments of this Court.	Reasoning
The High Court then referred to the decision of this Court in State of Punjab Anr.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
Gurdial Singh Ors. 1980 (2) SCC 471 and Om Prakash Anr.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors. 1998	Reasoning
(6) SCC 1 , as also Babu Ram Anr.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of Haryana Anr.	Reasoning
2009 (10) SCC 115 .	Reasoning
The High Court also referred to the decision in Manju Lata Agrawal Vs. State of U.P. Ors. 2007(9)	Reasoning
ADJ 447 (DB), Sudhir Chandra Agrawal Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. 2008 (3) ADJ 289 (DB) and Munshi Singh Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. 2009 (8) ADJ 360 (DB), which all were the decisions of the Allahabad High Court itself.	Reasoning
The Court then referred to the delay on account of the litigations from 2001 till 2008 and referred to the contention raised on behalf of the appellants relying on the judgment in Essco Fabs Pvt.	Reasoning
Ltd. Anr.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of Haryana Anr.	Reasoning
etc. etc. 2009 (2) SCC 377 , Mahender Pal Ors.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of Haryana Ors. 2009 (14) SCC 281 and Babu Ram Anr.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of Haryana Anr.	Reasoning
(cited supra).	Reasoning
It then recorded a finding in the following words In order to verify whether there was any material with the State Government to form an opinion and to exercise its powers under Section 17(1) and Section 17(4) of the Act, dispensing with enquiry under Section 5A of the Act, and that the State Government had applied its mind on such material, we summoned the records of the three concerned notifications.	None
Shri Satish Chaturvedi, Addl.	None
Advocate General assisted by Shri M.C. Tripathi, Addl.	None
Chief Standing Counsel has produced the records alongwith the material collected by the Collectors District Magistrate and placed before the State Government for forming an opinion.	None
He has taken us through the various documents and forms on which the Collectors have recommended on Forms X alongwith justification of their recommendations as well as its summary given in the office note placed before the State Government.	None
The three files produced before us relate to village Kuberpur, district Agra, village Malupur Pargana Atmadpur, district Agra and village Tappal district Aligarh for construction of interchange.	None
The notification under Section 4(1)/17 of the Act for proposing acquisition of land of village Kuberpur was made on 20.2.2009 and was published in two newspapers Amar Ujala and Dainik Jagran on 27.7.2009.	None
The munadi was made on 7.3.2009.	None
The notification under Section 6(1)/17 was issued on 15.6.2009 and was published in the two newspapers on 18.6.2009.	None
The notice under Section 9 was sent on 20.6.2009 and possession was taken on 8.7.2009.	None
In the recommendation sent by the District Magistrate, considered by the State Government on 11.2.2009 before publication of notification under Section 4, the District Magistrate had after giving details of land proposed to be acquired, had forwarded the FormX alongwith justification referred to in para 3 of the noting of the State Government.	None
The Collector, Agra recommended that in order to acquire the land for Y.E.I.D.A. established under the U.P. Industrial Area Development Act, 1976 the preparation of plan, identification of land for units for industrial development, infrastructural facilities, the lease or sale of the land, the construction of building and for industrial units.	None
Y.E.I.D.A. has been given the regulating powers.	None
The village Kuberpur is in the notified area of Y.E.I.D.A. and which urgently requires the proposed land for construction of interchange for Y.E.I.D.A.	None
In case of any delay there is a strong possibility of encroachment on the land, which will affect the Project of Y.E.I.D.A. in public interest.	None
In para 4 it was stated that hearing of oral and written objections will take several years causing indefinite delay in construction of interchange.	None
The proposal was forwarded with recommendation signed by the Under Secretary, Industrial Development, Government of U.P., Special Secretary, Industrial Development Shri Arun Kumar Sinha, Secretary, Rehabilitation and Industrial Development Department Government of U.P. Shri V.N. Garg, Principal Secretary, Rehabilitation and Development, Government of U.P. on 12.2.2009 and by Shri Shailesh Krishna, the Principal Secretary to Chief Minister on 18.2.2009.As regard the acquisition of land for Y.E.I.D.A. for interchange in village Malupur for construction of Yamuna Expressway, Pargana Atmadpur, district Agra for acquisition of 4.5322 hects.	None
of land the proposal with recommendation of District Magistrate, Agra on FormX and the justification similar to and in the same language as in the case of village Kuberpur, district Agra was placed before the State Government alongwith the notings.	None
The proposal bears recommendations and signature of Under Secretary, Industrial Development Department, Government of U.P. on 23.10.2008 Special Secretary, Industrial Development, Government of U.P. on 24.10.2008 Principal Secretary, Industrial Development and Commissioner on 30.11.2008 Special Secretary, Industrial Development on 10.12.2008 and the Secretary to Chief Minister on 15.12.2008.For village Tappal in Tehsil Khair, district Aligarh proposal for acquisition of 48.572 hect.	None
of land for Y.E.I.D.A.	None
for construction of Yamuna Expressway with the recommendation of the District Magistrate and justification for invoking urgency clause was placed before the State Government and was recommended and signed by the Under Secretary and Special Secretary, Industrial Development Department on 16.1.2009 Secretary, Rehabilitation and Industrial Development, Department of Government of U.P. on 16.1.2009 Principal Secretary, Industrial Development on 16.1.2009 and by the Secretary to the Chief Minister on the same day on 16.1.2009.	None
The proposals were accepted by the State Government for acquisition and for invoking urgency clause for construction of Yamuna Expressway by Y.E.I.D.A.	None
Ultimately, the High Court wrote a finding in the following words The record produced before us by the State Government enclosing the material of invoking urgency clause and the satisfaction of the State Government on the said material, has satisfied us that the State Government had sufficient material and had applied its mind to record its opinion that there was urgency to acquire the land to dispense with the enquiry under Section 5A of the Act.	None
We have deliberately quoted the above part of the High Court judgment only to show the meticulous care taken by the High Court in examining as to whether there was material before the State Government to dispense with the enquiry under Section 5A of the Act.	Reasoning
We are completely convinced that there was necessity in this Project considering the various reasons like enormousness of the Project, likelihood of the encroachments, number of appellants who would have required to be heard and the time taken for that purpose, and the fact that the Project had lingered already from 2001 till 2008.	Reasoning
We do not see any reason why we should take a different view than what is taken by the High Court.	Reasoning
The law on this subject was thoroughly discussed in Tika Ram Ors. etc. etc.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors. etc. etc. 2009 (10) SCC 689 , to which one of us (V.S. Sirpurkar) was a party.	Reasoning
In that decision also, we had reiterated that the satisfaction required on the part of Executive in dispensing with the enquiry under Section 5A is a matter subject to satisfaction and can be assailed only on the ground that there was no sufficient material to dispense with the enquiry or that the order suffered from malice.	Reasoning
It was also found on facts in Tika Ram Ors. etc. etc.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors. etc. etc. (cited supra) that there was no charge of malafide levelled against the exercise of power and there was material available in support of the satisfaction on the part of the Executive justifying the invocation of the provisions of Section 17.	Reasoning
The position is no different in the present case.	Reasoning
The High Court in the present matter went a step ahead and examined the bulky original record itself to find that there was full material available.40.	Reasoning
We are not impressed by the argument that the encroachment issue was not a relevant factor.	Reasoning
This argument was based on the reported decision in Om Prakash Anr.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.	Reasoning
(cited supra).	Reasoning
It must be said that the actual scenario in that case was different.	Reasoning
In that case, the Court was considering the acquisition of area of about 500 acres comprising of 437 plots, whereas, in the present case, the area to be acquired for the Expressway alone was more than 1,600 hectares.	Reasoning
This is apart from the 25 million square meters of land which was liable to be acquired for the purposes of development of 5 land parcels.	Reasoning
There was interlinking between the acquisition of land for the highway and the acquisition of land for establishing the 5 townships.	Reasoning
In Om Prakash Anr.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.	Reasoning
(cited supra), there was unexplained delay after issuance of Section 4 notification, which is not the case here.	Reasoning
Therefore, we do not think that what has been said in Om Prakash Anr.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.	Reasoning
(cited supra) would be apposite here.	Reasoning
Every case has to be decided on its own facts.	Reasoning
This is apart from the fact that it is not specifically laid down in Om Prakash Anr.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.	Reasoning
(cited supra) that the encroachment was never a relevant factor for dispensing with the enquiry under Section	Reasoning
5A. Again we hasten to add that this was not the only factor considered by the State Government and even the High Court has not held the same to be the only factor for dispensing with the enquiry.	Reasoning
In view of the law laid down in the last judgment on this issue i.e. Tika Ram Ors. etc. etc.	Decision
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors. etc. etc. (cited supra), we are of the clear opinion that the challenge by the appellants on the ground that there was no urgency and, therefore, the enquiry under Section 5A of the Act should not have been dispensed with, cannot be accepted.	Decision
We hold accordingly.42.	Decision
No other point was canvassed before us.43.	Decision
There is no merit in the appeals.	Decision
They are dismissed.	Decision
The two impugned judgments of the High Court i.e. Civil Misc.	Decision
Writ Petition No. 48978 of 2008 (Balbir Singh Anr.	Decision
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.) decided on 5.10.2009 and Civil Misc.	Decision
Writ Petition No. 31314 of 2009 (Nand Kishore Gupta Ors.	Decision
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.) decided on 30.11.2009 are confirmed.44.	Decision
There shall be no costs.	Decision
