 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted.	None
Interpretation of the provisions of Madhya Pradesh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Adhiniyam, (No. 23 of 1973) (for short, the Act) is in question in these appeals which arise out of the judgments and orders dated 06.03.2007 passed by a Division Bench of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh in Writ Petition No. 9396 of 2006 and Writ Appeal No. 462 of 2006.3.	Facts
Before we advert to the said question, we may notice the admitted fact of the matter.4.	Facts
The said Act was enacted to make provisions for planning and development and use of land to make better provision of the preparation of the development plans and zoning plans with a view to ensuring that town planning schemes are made in a proper manner and their execution is made effective to constitute a Town Country Planning Authority for proper implementation of town and country development plan to provide for the development and administration of special areas through a Special Area Development Authority to make provision for the compulsory acquisition of land required for the purposes connected with the said matters.	Facts
The said Act came into force with effect from 16.04.1973.	None
Statutory Provisions	None
The terms development, existing land use map, planning area, Town Development Scheme and Town and Country Development Authority, which are relevant for the purpose of this case, have been defined in Section 2(f), 2(i), 2(o), 2(u) and 2(v) of the Act respectively in the following terms2(f) development with its grammatical variations means the carrying out of a building, engineering, mining or other operation in, on over or under land, or the making of any material change in any building or land or in the use of either, and includes subdivision of any land2(i) existing land use map means a map indicating the use to which lands in any specified area are put at the time of preparing the map, and includes the register prepared, with the map giving details of landuse.2(o) planning area means any area declared to be a planning area under this Act NonPlanning area shall be construed accordingly.2(u) Town Development Scheme means a scheme prepared for the implementation of the provisions of a development plan by the Town and Country Development Authority and includes Scheme2(v) Town and Country Development Authority means an authority established under Section 38.	None
Chapter IV of the Act deals with planning areas and development plans.	None
Section 13(1) empowers the State Government to constitute planning areas for the purposes of the said Act and define the limits thereof.	Facts
Subsection (2) of Section 13 empowers the State Government by notification, inter alia, to alter the limits of the planning area so as to include therein or exclude there from such areas, as may be specified in the notification to amalgamate two or more planning areas so as to constitute one planning area to divide any planning area into two more planning areas and to declare that the whole or part of the area constituting the planning area shall cease to be a planning area or part thereof.	Facts
Subsection (3) of Section 13 of the Act provides for a nonobstante clause, in terms whereof, the local authority mentioned therein shall in relation to the planning areas from the date of the notification issued under subsection (1) cease to exercise the powers, perform the functions and discharge the duties which the State Government or the Director is competent to exercise.	Facts
Section 14 of the Act enables the Director to prepare an existing land use map and development plan.	Facts
Section 15 enables the Director to carry out the survey and prepare an existing land use map and forthwith publish the same in the manner laid down therein.	Facts
Once such a plan is published, no person is authorised to institute or change the use of any land or carry out any development of land for any purpose other than that indicated in the existing land use map without the permission in writing of the Director.	Facts
Clause (b) of subsection (1) of Section 16, however, provides (b) no local authority or any officer or other authority shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, grant permission for the change in use of land otherwise than as indicated in the existing land use map without the permission in writing of the Director.	None
Section 17 provides as to what should be the contents of the development plan.	None
Section 17A(1) provides for constitution of a committee subsections (2) and (3) whereof read as under The Committee constituted under subsection (1), shall(a) consider and suggest modifications and alterations in the draft development plan prepared by the Director under section 14(b) hear the objections after the publication of the draft development plan under section 18 and suggest modifications or alterations if any to the Director.(3)	Arguments of Respondent
The Convenor of the Committee shall record in writing all the suggestions, modifications and alterations recommended by the committee under subsection (2) and thereafter forward his report to the Director.	None
Section 18 of the Act provides for publication of a development plan in terms whereof the objections and suggestions in writing are invited with respect thereto.	None
The notice in terms of the said provision is to specify in regard to the draft development plan, inter alia, the following particulars the existing land use mapsxxx xx xxx(iv)	None
the provisions for enforcing the draft development plan and stating the manner in which permission for development may be obtained.	None
Section 19 provides for sanction of development plans, subsection (2) whereof reads as under Where the State Government approves the development plan with modification the State Government shall, by a notice published in the Gazette, invite objections and suggestions in respect of such modifications within a period of not less than thirty days from the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette.	None
Preparation of zoning plan is envisaged under Chapter V thereof.	None
Section 20 reads as under The Local Authority may on its own motion at any time after the publication of the development plan, or thereafter if so required by the State Government shall, within six months of such requisition, prepare a zoning plan.	None
In the zoning plan more details of land use as indicated in the development plan are to be indicated and, inter alia, shall (c) allocate in detail areas or zones for residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural, and other purposes13.	None
Chapter VI of the Act deals with control of development and use of land, provided that the overall control of development and use of land in the State shall vest in the State Government subsection (2) of Section 24 reads as under(2) Subject to the provision of subsection (1) and the rules made under this Act, the overall control of development and use of land in the planning area shall vest in the Director with effect from such date as the State Government may by notification, appoint in this behalf.	None
Section 25 envisages that the use and development of land shall conform to the provisions of the development plan.	None
Section 38 occurring in Chapter VII provides for establishment of a Town and Country Development Authority, subsections (1) and (2) whereof read as under 38(1).The State Government may, by notification, establish a Town and Country Development Authority by such name and for such area as may be specified in the notification.(2)	Reasoning
The duty of implementing the proposal in the development plan, preparing one or more town development schemes and acquisition and development of land for the purpose of expansion or improvement of the area specified in the notification under subsection (1) shall, subject to the provisions of this Act vest in the Town Country Development Authority established for the said area.	None
Section 49 of the Act envisages that a town development scheme may make provision for the matters specified therein including acquisition of land for the purposes mentioned therein as also any other work of such a nature as would bring about environmental improvements which may be taken up by the authority with the prior approval of the State Government.	None
Subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4) of Section 50 of the Act, which are material for our purpose, read as under 50.(1)	None
The Town and Country Development Authority may, at any time, declare its intention to prepare a town development scheme.(2) Not later than thirty days from the date of such declaration of intention to make a scheme, the Town and Country Development Authority shall publish the declaration in the Gazette and in such other manner as may be prescribed.(3)	None
Not later than two years from the date of publication of the declaration under subsection (2) the Town and Country Development Authority shall prepare a town development scheme in draft form and publish it in such form and manner as may be prescribed together with a notice inviting objections and suggestions from any person with respect to the said draft development scheme before such date as may be specified therein, such date being not earlier than thirty days from the date of publication of such notice.(4) The Town and Country Development Authority shall consider all the objections and suggestions as may be received within the period specified in the notice under subsection (3) and shall after giving a reasonable opportunity to such persons affected thereby as are desirous of being heard or after considering the report of the committee constituted under subsection (5) approve the draft scheme as published or make such modifications therein as it may deem fit.	None
A proviso has been added thereafter to subsection (4) by Act of 2004 in terms whereof a draft scheme must be approved within the period of one year from the publication thereof.	None
Section 51 provides for revision of the draft scheme.	None
Section 53 imposes restrictions on land use and land development in the following terms As from the date of publication of the declaration to prepare a town development scheme, no person shall, within the area included in the scheme, institute or change the use of any land or building or carry out any development, save in accordance with the development authorised by the Director in accordance with the provisions of this Act prior to the publication of such declaration.	None
Section 55 provides that land needed for the purpose of town development scheme shall be deemed to be land needed for public purpose.	None
Section 72 empowers the State Government to supervise and control the acts and proceedings of the officers appointed under Section 3 and the authorities constituted under the said Act.	None
The State can issue directions in terms of Section 73 of the Act.	None
Section 75 Section provides for delegation of powers.	None
Notifications On or about 13.02.1974, the State Government issued a notification under subsection (1) of Section 13 of the Act constituting Indore Planning Area, the limits whereof were defined in the schedule appended thereto.	Facts
Indisputably, it constituted only 37 villages.	Reasoning
The villages Bicholi and Kanadia, with which we are concerned herein, were not included therein.20.	Reasoning
The State Government in exercise of power conferred upon it under Section 38 of the Act issued a notification establishing the AppellantAuthority, namely, Indore Vikas Pradhikaran from 13.05.1977 in respect of the area specified in the notification dated 13.02.1974.21.	Facts
On or about 30.03.1999, the State Government delegated its power under Sections 13 and 47A of the Act in favour of the District Planning Committee and it in exercise of said delegated power by a notification dated 13.11.2000 amended the planning area by adding 115 villages therein which included the said villages Bicholi and Kanadia.	Reasoning
By a notification dated 28.06.2002, it, however, further amended the extent of planning area by deleting 62 villages therefrom.	Reasoning
Bicholi and Kanadia villages were, however, retained in the said amended notification.22.	Reasoning
Upon compliance of the usual statutory formalities, the appellant published a draft development plan on 27.06.2003.	Reasoning
The said plan was in respect of Urban Development Scheme No.164.	Facts
Objections and suggestions in respect thereof were called for.	Reasoning
Allegedly, objections and suggestions having been filed they were heard by the Development Planning Committee during the period between 25.08.2003 and 03.09.2003.	Reasoning
By a resolution adopted in a meeting held on 20.08.2004 a decision in anticipation of approval of the Government under Section 50(1) of the Act was proposed, which included the lands of villages Bicholi and Kanadia, inter alia, for construction of a byepass road of 60 metres width.	Facts
A declaration of intention to prepare a town development scheme in terms of subsection (2) of Section 50 was issued on 24.08.2004.	Facts
Indisputably, in terms of subsection (3) of Section 50 of the Act, the draft town development scheme was to be prepared within a period of two years therefrom.	Facts
On or about 02.12.2004, Respondent applied for sanction of development plans under Section 29(1) of the Act.	Reasoning
We may, however, notice that on 04.01.2005, the said draft development plans were returned by the State of Madhya Pradesh in terms of Section 19(1) of the Act with a direction that the plans be prepared for the projected population as in the year 2021 and the same be placed before the Government for approval as soon as possible.23.	Facts
The State of Madhya Pradesh, however, issued a notification in terms of subsection (1) of Section 38 of the Act, inter alia, in respect of the villages in question, namely, Bicholi and Kanadia only on 28.10.2005.	Facts
Appellant issued a notification on 18.05.2006 inviting objections in respect of the said scheme.	Facts
A Draft Development Plan2021 was published on 13.07.2006.Contentions of the writ petitionerrespondents 24.	Facts
Respondents lands situated in villages Bicholi and Kanadia were within the respective jurisdictions of the Gram Panchayats constituted under the provisions of the Madhya Pradesh Gram Panchayat Act.	Facts
The said panchayats in terms of the provisions of the Act were local authorities.	Facts
They submitted applications for grant of building plan in the year 1990 and the same was sanctioned on or about 05.04.1991.25.	Facts
Respondents, as noticed hereinbefore, applied for and obtained sanction in terms of the building byelaws framed by the respective gram panchayats in 1991 for grant of development plans under Section 29(1) on 02.12.2004.	Facts
The said applications were rejected by the Joint Director, Town and Country Planning in view of the purported publication of the plan under subsection (2) of Section 50 of the Act.	Facts
Respondents filed a writ petition against the said order, inter alia, praying for issuance of a writ or order in the nature of mandamus directing the said authority to sanction the site plan which had been submitted.	Facts
The said writ petitions were dismissed by a learned Single Judge by an order dated 17.05.2006.	Facts
Writ appeals were preferred thereagainst, which have been allowed by the Division Bench of the High Court by its judgment dated 06.03.2007.High Court Judgment By reason of the impugned judgment, the High Court struck down the declaration made under Section (2) of Section 50 of the Act, opining(i) Unless a development plan for an area is published and comes into operation, a draft development scheme cannot be published by the Town and Country Development Authority under subsection (2) of Section 50 of the Act.(ii)	Facts
Such a town development scheme cannot by itself without a development plan for the area restrict the right of a person to use his property in the manner he likes.(iii)	Facts
Although the notification issued by the AppellantAuthority had been constituted by the State Government only in respect of the area which was covered by the notification dated 13.02.1974, the draft development scheme prepared by it was ultra vires, so far as the said two villages are concerned, being beyond its territorial jurisdiction.	Facts
Submissions Mr. K.K. Venugopal, and Mr. S.K. Gambhir, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, submitted The High Court committed a serious error in interpreting the provisions of Section 50 of the Act, inasmuch (i) Under the Act an existing land use map has to be published which would indicate broadly the land use proposed in the planning area and the areas or zones of land allocated for the purposes mentioned therein and (ii) As the scheme covers the villages in question, the same could not have been ignored.(ii) Having regard to the fact that the scheme provides for construction of a bypass road of 70 feet width, any construction by the builders would lead to haphazard development and, thus, would completely destroy the purpose for which the land was to be reserved for planned development of the residential area.(iii)	Arguments of Petitioner
Undertaking of haphazard and unplanned development would carry with it a statutory injunction provided for under Section 53 of the Act, in terms whereof, if an existing land use map or a draft development plan or a town development scheme is published, no person is permitted to obtain any permission for carrying out any development contrary thereto or inconsistent therewith.(iv)	Arguments of Petitioner
The materials on records established that a large number of permissions were obtained by the private developers which if allowed to be implemented shall result in haphazard development of colonies and buildings and, thus, defeat the purpose of the Act.(v)	Arguments of Petitioner
As Section 50 is not subject to the publication of a final development plan, as would be evident from the words used therein, namely, at any time, Section 53 would operate as soon as an intention is expressed by issuance of a notification in terms thereof.(vi)	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 50 of the Act must be read in the contrast with Section 20 thereof.	Arguments of Petitioner
So read, a town development scheme must be consistent with the provisions of the existing land use map as well as a draft development plan as otherwise the purport and object for which Section 53 has been enacted would become otiose.(vii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The Authority constituted under Section 38 being statutorily obligated to implement the development plan, as would appear from Sections 38(2) and 49 of the Act, the power duty to prevent haphazard by declaring the town development scheme must be held to be vested in the AppellantAuthority.(viii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The State of Madhya Pradesh having framed rules known as Madhya Pradesh Bhumi Vikas Niyam, 1984, (Rules) which are parts of the town development scheme, keeping in view the fact that the scheme provided for 10,000 houses for the low income group wherefor three major roads were required to be built up having a width of 75 metres, 60 metres and 36 metres respectively as also parks, roads, colleges, gardens, playgrounds and green belts, the purposes for which such scheme had been framed would not be subserved, if permissions are granted for haphazard and unplanned development.(ix)	Arguments of Petitioner
In any event, private interest must be waived to public interest.(x)	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court committed a manifest error insofar it failed to take into consideration that the planning area having been extended by a notification issued by the District Planning Committee, the same would sub serve the purpose of the notification dated 28.10.2005 issued under subsection (1) of Section 38 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Banthia, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State had not made any separate submission before us.	None
Mr. C.A. Sundaram and Mr. Arun Jaitley, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents in these appeals, on the other hand, would submit The land of the respondents being outside the planning area, as notified by the State of Madhya Pradesh constituting the AppellantAuthority, the purported town development scheme would not be applicable in relation thereto.	Arguments of Respondent
Only because the planning area has been extended by the District Planning Committee, the same would not ipso fact enlarge the territorial jurisdiction of the AppellantAuthority.(ii)	Arguments of Respondent
Safeguard of public interest has sufficiently been taken care of in terms of the Act., as upon issuance of a notification under Section 13 of the Act, the Director only is authorised to sanction a plan for development and carry out other functions as laid down under Sections 15, 16 and 17 of the Act.(iii)	Arguments of Respondent
The committee constituted under Section 17A of the Act is the only authority which can consider and suggest modifications in the draft development plan prepared by the Director under Section 14, whereafter only a draft development plan can be published in terms of Section 18 subsection (2) whereof in turn envisages consideration of objections, suggestions, etc.(iv) Only upon completion of the procedures laid down in the said provisions development plan can be sanctioned by the State under Section 19 and, thus, in the event the State Government has power to make modification in the development plan, the same would come into operation only from the date of publication of the notification in the gazette issued under subsection (4) thereof.(v) Procedure laid down in the provisions of the Act having not been fulfilled, the impugned action had resulted in breach of law and, thus, the same had rightly been struck down.(vi)	Arguments of Respondent
Chapter V of the Act provides for preparation of zoning plans and the contents thereof having been prescribed, the safeguards envisaged under Sections 18 and 19 of the Act would take care of public interest involved, inasmuch the overall control and development as also land use is vested in the Director and in that view of the matter unless a final development plan comes into being, the AppellantAuthority cannot be held to have any jurisdiction thereover in view of Section 38 of the Act.(vii)	Arguments of Respondent
The definition of the town development scheme as contained in Section 2(u) of the Act presupposes existence of a sanctioned development plan prepared as per law, and, thus, in absence thereof a town development scheme under Section 50 cannot be made.(viii)	Arguments of Respondent
In view of the fact that the State Government has issued a notification on 28.10.2005 extending the area of operation of the AppellantAuthority, the scheme illegally notified by it would not be invalidated.(ix)	Arguments of Respondent
Gram Panchayat of the village being the competent authority at the relevant time having sanctioned the building plan, a vested right had accrued in favour of the first respondent and such a power having been acknowledged and accepted under the provisions of the Act, the same cannot be taken away.	None
Analysis of the statutory provisions The Act is divided into several chapters.	None
It proceeds on the basis that steps are required to be taken before a town planning scheme is given effect to.	None
The State Government is in overall control of the matter relating to town and country planning.	None
The Director of Town and Country Planning, however, subject to the control and supervision of the State, exercises such statutory powers which are conferred upon him.	None
A State is divided into several regions.	None
A regional plan is finalised whereupon restrictions on use of land or development thereof can be imposed.	None
Such regional plan is subject to review.	None
Chapter IV of the Act provides for carving out planning areas and preparation of development plans.	None
Development plans are required to be prepared and finalised only in relation to the planning areas.	None
An area, however, which is notified can be subdivided into planning areas and nonplanning areas.	None
Chapter V of the Act deals with the preparation, finalization, review and modifications of the zonal plan wherewith we are not concerned much in these appeals.	Reasoning
Chapter VI of the Act provides for control of development and use of land.	Reasoning
In terms of Section 24 of the Act, the Director is to control land use.	Reasoning
Preparation of development plan, prohibition of development without permission and matters connected therewith and incidental thereto are also dealt with in Chapter VI.	Reasoning
Chapter VII of the Act, however, provides for shift of control in respect of land use and development for the hands of the Director and, consequently of the State to the Town and Country Development Authority.	Reasoning
Section 38 provides for establishment of Town and Country Development Authority.	Reasoning
The Act envisages the following steps which are required to be complied with Constitution of a planning area by notification under Section 13.	None
Compliance of the detailed procedure set out under Sections 14 to 19, leading to sanction of the development plan under Section 19.	None
The said procedure envisages compliance of principles of natural justice.	None
Section 38 provides for establishment of a Town and Country Development Authority, by notification for such areas as may be specified in the notification.	Reasoning
Under subsection (2) thereof, duties of implementation of the development plan and preparation of the town development scheme have been cast on the Town and Country Development Authority.	None
The town development scheme is to be prepared upon following the procedure set out under Section 50.	None
The said scheme can be prepared only when there exists a development plan, prepared in accordance with the procedure prescribed under the Act as envisaged under Sections 14 to 19 and after notification under Section 38(1).	None
In this regard, reference may be also be made to Section 2(u) of the Act, which describes a town development scheme to mean a scheme prepared for implementation of the provisions of the development plan.	None
Before the procedure referred to hereinbefore is applied to the case at hand, it would appear that the notification dated 13.02.1974 issued under Section 13 of the Act extending the planning area would not include the land of the respondents being outside its territorial jurisdiction.	None
By reason of 1977 Notification the villages in question in which the lands of the respondents are situated, Indore Development Plan, 19991 would not have any application thereover.	None
The notification issued under Section 38(1) of the Act on 09.05.1977, would, thus, be limited to the area specified under the notification dated 13.02.1974.	None
A Town and Country Development Authority although may have something to do with the preparation of the draft development plan.	None
It exercises complete control, subject of course to the power of the State Government, to give directions, exercises revisional power, etc. over implementation of the development plan by making town development schemes.	None
Chapter VIII of the Act deals with special areas.	None
Chapter IX, however, envisages power of the State Government of supervision and control as also to issue necessary directions.	None
The State has also the power to review plans for ensuring conformity.	None
It may also delegate its power from time to time.	None
Dissolution of authority at the hands of the State is envisaged under Section 76 of the Act.	None
When a planning area is defined, the same envisages preparation of development plan and the manner in which the existing land use is to be implemented.	None
A development plan in some statutes is also known as a master plan.	None
It lays down the broad objectives and parameters wherewith the development plan is to deal with.	None
It also lays down the geographical splitting giving rise to preparation and finalization of zonal plans.	None
The zonal plans contain more detailed and specific maters than the master plan or the development plan.	None
Town planning scheme or layout plan contains further details on plotwise basis.	None
It may provide for the manner in which each plot shall be dealt with as also the matter relating to regulations of development.	None
Once, however, the existing land use is in place, subject to certain restrictions contained in the Act, the Director would permit land use in the same manner as is found to be existing.	None
The old laws, in relation thereto, as also the permissions granted by the local authorities which includes a gram panchayat are permitted to operate till new laws are framed and or till new building regulations are made.	None
When existing land use is in place, use thereof for purposes other than the existing land use is frozen.	None
However, subject to permission granted by the Director, the development of land is not frozen.	None
When a draft development plan is prepared, the same is subject to grant of approval and or modification thereof.	Reasoning
We will deal with the matter at some details a little later but at this stage, we may notice that end use of the land is not frozen until a final sanction plan comes into being.	Reasoning
A town planning scheme, as would appear from its definition contained in Section 2(4) of the Act, is prepared only for the purpose of implementation of a development plan.	Reasoning
Yet again, we would deal with the question as to whether the same would bring within its sweep the draft development plan or only final development plan a little later, but it may be noticed that once a valid town planning scheme comes into force, indisputably, there may be freezing of land use as also freezing of development and, thus, a total embargo is placed except in such cases where the Director had granted permission.	Reasoning
Section 53 of the Act, however, in the event a valid town planning scheme is made, places a total embargo both on land use as also the development.	Reasoning
Even the Director is denuded of its power to issue any further permission.	Reasoning
Existing land use, draft development plan and final development plan envisage twostage exercise.	Reasoning
In drafting or finalizing a zonal plan, a similar exercise is undertaken.	Reasoning
In making a town development scheme, however, the process undertaken is a threestage one inasmuch as an intention therefor is declared which entails serious consequences and, as noticed hereinbefore, by reason thereof, a total embargo is imposed both on land use as also the development.	Reasoning
For the said purpose, a time limit within which a draft town planning scheme has to be finalized is provided but the same can be subject to modification by the State which ordinarily should be with a view to deal with the same in line with the final development plan.	Reasoning
Principal questions In these appeals, principally, we are beset with two questions(i) Whether having regard to notification dated 13.02.1974 visvis the expansion of the Indore Development Plan, the District Committee in exercise of its delegated power can automatically extend the area of operation of the appellant despite the notification constituting it by the State whereby and whereunder its area of operation was limited to the one covered by the notification dated 13.02.1974 ?(ii) Whether the appellant  authority can declare its intention in terms of Section 50 of the Act before the development attained finality.	Issue
Competing Interest There are two competing interests, viz., one, the interest of the State visvis the general public and, two, to have better living conditions and the right of property of an individual which although is not a fundamental right but is a constitutional and human right.	None
Before we embark upon the questions involved in these appeals, we would like to make some general observations.	None
Town and country planning involving land development of the cities which are sought to be achieved through the process of land use, zoning plan and regulating building activities must receive due attention of all concerned.	Reasoning
We are furthermore not oblivious of the fact that such planning involving highly complex cities depends upon scientific research, study and experience and, thus, deserves due reverence.47.	Reasoning
Where, however, a scheme comes into force, although it may cause hardship to the individual owners as they may be prevented from making the most profitable use of their rights over property, having regard to the drastic consequences envisaged thereunder, the statute should be considered in such a manner as a result whereof greater hardship is not caused to the citizens than actually contemplated thereby.	Reasoning
Whereas an attempt should be made to prevent unplanned and haphazard development but the same would not mean that the court would close its eyes to the blatant illegalities committed by the State and or the statutory authorities in implementation thereof.	Reasoning
Implementation of such land development as also building laws should be in consonance with public welfare and convenience.	Reasoning
In United States of America zoning ordinances are enacted pursuant to the police power delegated by the State.	Reasoning
Although in India the source of such power is not police power but if a zoning classification imposes unreasonable restrictions, it cannot be sustained.	Reasoning
The public authority may have general considerations, safety or general welfare in mind, but the same would become irrelevant, as thereby statutory rights of a party cannot be taken away.	Reasoning
The courts must make an endeavour to strike a balance between public interest on the one hand and protection of a constitutional right to hold property, on the other.	Reasoning
For the aforementioned purpose, an endeavour should be made to find out as to whether the statute takes care of public interest in the matter visvis the private interest, on the one hand, and the effect of lapse and or positive inaction on the part of the State and other planning authorities, on the other.	None
The courts cannot also be oblivious of the fact that the owners who are subject to the embargos placed under the statute are deprived of their valuable rightful use of the property for a long time.	None
Although ordinarily when a public authority is asked to perform statutory duties within the time stipulated it is directory in nature but when it involves valuable rights of the citizens and provides for the consequences therefor it would be construed to be mandatory in character.	None
In T. Vijayalakshmi v. Town Planning Member (2006) 8 SCC 502 , this Court held The law in this behalf is explicit.	None
Right of a person to construct residential houses in the residential area is a valuable right.	None
The said right can only be regulated in terms of a regulatory statute but unless there exists a clear provision the same cannot be taken away.	None
It is also a trite law that the building plans are required to be dealt with in terms of the existing law.	None
Determination of such a question cannot be postponed far less taken away.	None
Doctrine of legitimate expectation in a case of this nature would have a role to play.	None
It was further observed It is, thus, now wellsettled law that an application for grant of permission for construction of a building is required to be decided in accordance with law applicable on the day on which such permission is granted.	None
However, a statutory authority must exercise its jurisdiction within a reasonable time.	None
(See Kuldeep Singh v. Govt.	None
of NCT of Delhi)	None
What would be a public purpose in such a matter has been stated in Prakash Amichand Shah v. State of Gujarat Others (1986) 1 SCC 581 , whereupon the State itself relied upon, in the following terms In order to appreciate the contentions of the appellant it is necessary to look at the object of the legislation in question as a whole.	None
The object of the Act is not just acquiring a bit of land here or a bit of land there for some public purpose.	None
It consists of several activities which have as their ultimate object the orderly development of an urban area.	None
It envisages the preparation of a development plan, allocation of land for various private and public uses, preparation of a Town Planning Scheme and making provisions for future development of the area in question.	None
The various aspects of a Town Planning Scheme have already been set out.	None
On the final Town Planning Scheme coming into force under Section 53 of the Act there is an automatic vesting of all lands required by the local authority, unless otherwise provided, in the local authority.	None
It is not a case where the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 have to be set in motion either by the Collector or by the Government.	None
The impugned provision does not subserve such purpose.	None
It is also not a case like State of Gujarat v. Shantilal Mangaldas Ors. 1969	None
(3) SCR 341 , that when a development is made, the owner of the property not only gets much more than what he would have got, if the same remained undeveloped in the process but also get the benefit of living in a developed town having good town planning.	None
The courts should, therefore, strive to find a balance of the competing interest.	None
Human Right Issue	None
The right of property is now considered to be not only a constitutional right but also a human right.	None
The Declaration of Human Rights (1789) enunciates under Article 17 since the right to property is inviolable and sacred, noone may be deprived thereof, unless public necessity, legally ascertained, obviously requires it and just and prior indemnity has been paid.	None
Further under Article 217 (IIII) of 10th December, 1948, adopted in the General Assembly Resolution it is stated that (i) Everyone has the right to own property alone as well as in association with others.	None
(ii) Noone shall be arbitrarily deprived of his property.	None
Earlier human rights were existed to the claim of individuals right to health, right to livelihood, right to shelter and employment etc.	None
but now human rights have started gaining a multifacet approach.	None
Now property rights are also incorporated within the definition of human rights.	None
Even claim of adverse possession has to be read in consonance with human rights.	None
As President John Adams (17971801) put it, Property is surely a right of mankind as real as liberty.	None
Adding, The moment the idea is admitted into society that property is not as sacred as the laws of God, and that there is not a force of law and public justice to protect it, anarchy and tyranny commence.	None
Property, while ceasing to be a fundamental right would, however, be given express recognition as a legal right, provisions being made that no person shall be deprived of his property save in accordance with law.	None
Interpretation of the Act The Act being regulatory in nature as by reason thereof the right of an owner of property to use and develop stands restricted, requires strict construction.	None
An owner of land ordinarily would be entitled to use or develop the same for any purpose unless there exists certain regulation in a statute or a statutory rules.	None
Regulations contained in such statute must be interpreted in such a manner so as to least interfere with the right of property of the owner of such land.	None
Restrictions are made in larger public interest.	None
Such restrictions, indisputably must be reasonable one.	None
See Balram Kumwat v. Union of India Ors.	None
(2003) 7 SCC 628 Krishi Utpadan Mandi Samiti Ors.	None
v. Pilibhit Pantnagar Beej Ltd. Anr.	None
(2004) 1 SCC 391 and Union of India Ors.	None
v. West Coast Paper Mills Ltd. Anr.	None
(2004) 2 SCC 747 .	None
The statutory scheme contemplates that a person and owner of land should not ordinarily be deprived from the user thereof by way of reservation or designation.	None
Expropriatory legislation, as is wellknown, must be given a strict construction.	None
In Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. v. Daius Shapur Chenai Ors.	None
(2005) 7 SCC 627 , construing Section 5A of the Land Acquisition Act, this Court observed It is not in dispute that Section 5A of the Act confers a valuable right in favour of a person whose lands are sought to be acquired.	None
Having regard to the provisions contained in Article 300A of the Constitution, the State in exercise of its power of eminent domain may interfere with the right of property of a person by acquiring the same but the same must be for a public purpose and reasonable compensation therefor must be paid.7.	None
Indisputably, the definition of public purpose is of wide amplitude and takes within its sweep the acquisition of land for a corporation owned or controlled by the State, as envisaged under subclause (iv) of clause (f) of Section 3 of the Act.	None
But the same would not mean that the State is the sole judge therefor and no judicial review shall lie.	None
(See Jilubhai Nanbhai Khachar v. State of Gujarat.)	None
It was further stated The Act is an expropriatory legislation.	None
This Court in State of M.P. v. Vishnu Prasad Sharma observed that in such a case the provisions of the statute should be strictly construed as it deprives a person of his land without consent.	None
See also Khub Chand v. State of Rajasthan and CCE v. Orient Fabrics (P) Ltd There cannot, therefore, be any doubt that in a case of this nature due application of mind on the part of the statutory authority was imperative.	None
In State of Rajasthan Ors.	None
v. Basant Nahata JT 2005 (8) SC 171 , it was opined In absence of any substantive provisions contained in a parliamentary or legislative act he cannot be refrained from dealing with his property in any manner he likes.	None
Such statutory interdict would be opposed to ones right of property as envisaged under Article 300A of the Constitution of India.	None
In State of Uttar Pradesh v. Manohar (2005) 2 SCC 126 , a Constitution Bench of this Court held Ours is a constitutional democracy and the rights available to the citizens are declared by the Constitution.	None
Although Article 19(1)(f) was deleted by the Fortyfourth Amendment to the Constitution, Article 300A has been placed in the Constitution, which reads as follows300A. Persons not to be deprived of property save by authority of law.	None
No person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law.	None
This is a case where we find utter lack of legal authority for deprivation of the respondents property by the appellants who are State authorities In Jilubhai Nanbhai Khachar Ors.	None
v. State of Gujarat and Anr.	None
(1995) Supp.	None
1 SCC 596, the law is stated in the following terms The right of eminent domain is the right of the sovereign State, through its regular agencies, to reassert, either temporarily or permanently, its dominion over any portion of the soil of the State including private property without its owners consent on account of public exigency and for the public good.	None
Eminent domain is the highest and most exact idea of property remaining in the Government, or in the aggregate body of the people in their sovereign capacity.	None
It gives the right to resume possession of the property in the manner directed by the Constitution and the laws of the State, whenever the public interest requires it.	None
The term expropriation is practically synonymous with the term eminent domain It was further observed The word property used in Article 300A must be understood in the context in which the sovereign power of eminent domain is exercised by the State and property expropriated.	None
No abstract principles could be laid.	None
Each case must be considered in the light of its own facts and setting.	None
The phrase deprivation of the property of a person must equally be considered in the fact situation of a case.	None
Deprivation connotes different concepts.	None
Article 300A gets attracted to an acquisition or taking possession of private property, by necessary implication for public purpose, in accordance with the law made by Parliament or a State Legislature, a rule or a statutory order having force of law.	None
It is inherent in every sovereign State by exercising its power of eminent domain to expropriate private property without owners consent.	None
Prima facie, State would be the judge to decide whether a purpose is a public purpose.	None
But it is not the sole judge.	None
This will be subject to judicial review and it is the duty of the court to determine whether a particular purpose is a public purpose or not.	None
Public interest has always been considered to be an essential ingredient of public purpose.	None
But every public purpose does not fall under Article 300A nor every exercise of eminent domain an acquisition or taking possession under Article 300A. Generally speaking preservation of public health or prevention of damage to life and property are considered to be public purposes.	None
Yet deprivation of property for any such purpose would not amount to acquisition or possession taken under Article 300A. It would be by exercise of the police power of the State.	None
In other words, Article 300A only limits the powers of the State that no person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law.	None
There has to be no deprivation without any sanction of law.	None
Deprivation by any other mode is not acquisition or taking possession under Article 300A. In other words, if there is no law, there is no deprivation.	None
Acquisition of mines, minerals and quarries is deprivation under Article 300A. Rajendra Babu, J (as the learned Chief Justice then was) in Sri Krishnapur Mutt, Udupi v. N. Vijayendra Shetty and Anr. 1992 (3) Kar.	None
L.J. 326 observed The restrictions imposed in the planning law though in public interest should be strictly interpreted because they make an inroad into the rights of a private persons to carry on his business by construction of a suitable building for the purpose and incidentally may affect his fundamental right if too widely interpreted.	None
The question has also been addressed by a decision of the Division Bench of this Court in Pt. Chet Ram Vashist (Dead) by LRs.	None
v. Municipal Corporation of Delhi (1995) 1 SCC 47 , wherein R.M. Sahai, J., speaking for the Bench opined	None
Reserving any site for any street, open space, park, school etc.	None
in a layout plan is normally a public purpose as it is inherent in such reservation that it shall be used by the public in general.	None
The effect of such reservation is that the owner ceases to be a legal owner of the land in dispute and he holds the land for the benefit of the society or the public in general.	None
It may result in creating an obligation in nature of trust and may preclude the owner from transferring or selling his interest in it.	None
It may be true as held by the High Court that the interest which is left in the owner is a residuary interest which may be nothing more than a right to hold this land in trust for the specific purpose specified by the coloniser in the sanctioned layout plan.	None
But the question is, does it entitle the Corporation to claim that the land so specified should be transferred to the authority free of cost.	None
That is not made out from any provision in the Act or on any principle of law.	None
The Corporation by virtue of the land specified as open space may get a right as a custodian of public interest to manage it in the interest of the society in general.	None
But the right to manage as a local body is not the same thing as to claim transfer of the property to itself.	None
The effect of transfer of the property is that the transferor ceases to be owner of it and the ownership stands transferred to the person in whose favour it is transferred.	None
The resolution of the Committee to transfer land in the colony for park and school was an order for transfer without there being any sanction for the same in law.	None
See also Raju S. Jethmalani v. State of Maharashtra (2005) 4 SCALE 688.	None
Application of the Act While determining the questions involved in these appeals, we are not unmindful that the purpose and object of the town development scheme is a laudable one insofar as it purports to allocate areas covered by Scheme No. 164 for residential purposes and a bypass road of 70 feet wide is to be built along the eastern periphery of the area covered by the Scheme.	Reasoning
The question, however, would be as to whether the development can be said to be a haphazard one or would completely destroy the purpose for which the land was to be reserved for planned development of the residential area.	Reasoning
The process started in the year 1974.	None
Only 37 villages were included within the planning area.	None
It may be that with the passage of time the requirements for a better planned city were felt, but it is difficult to conceive that the State of Madhya Pradesh while constituting the appellant  authority in terms of Section 38(1) of the Act by reason of its notification dated 09.05.1977 was wholly oblivious thereto.	None
When the Act came into force the existing land use was determined.	None
The area for which, thus, land could be put to use was fixed.	None
No land could be used for a purpose which is not envisaged by land use.	None
A Director who is a very high ranking officer and is answerable only to the State is appointed under the Act to put an eye over the development activities be it by the developers or others.	None
Apart from the fact that gram panchayat which is a local authority within the meaning of the provisions of the Act had the occasion to consider each application for grant of sanction of the building plans which presumably would require to be drawn directly in terms of the building bylaws framed under a statute which in turn gave rise to a presumption that it had received an approval of the State, in the event of any further development the permission of the Director is necessary.	None
The Director, however, being an authority under the Act was statutorily enjoined to perform his duties within the fourcorners of the statute.	None
Whereas the said statutory authority is required to apply its mind before an application for grant of development of land is filed, which itself having regard to its wide definition is extensive in nature, to the requirements of law, it cannot unduly withhold such permission if the application otherwise fulfils the statutory conditions.	None
The Act itself envisages that in the event an application is not disposed of within the time specified, a development plan would be deemed to be sanctioned.	None
See Section 30(5) of the Act Land use, therefore, is restricted.	None
The manner in which the permission for construction of building is to be granted is also welldefined.	None
Respondents obtained permission for development from the competent authority for diversion of land use as far back as on 12.01.1989.	None
They had applied for and were granted sanction of building plan by the gram panchayat in the year 1991.	None
No step was taken by the statutory authorities or the appellant herein to notify a draft development plan.	None
It was not notified till 2000.	None
No further step was taken pursuant thereto or in furtherance thereof.	None
Respondents filed an application before the Director for grant of permission only on 2.12.2004 which was rejected by reason of an order dated 14.12.2004 purported to be for the following reason subjected land of village Bicholi Hapsi has been included in the proposed Development Scheme No. 164 of Indore Development Authority.	None
We may notice two precise submissions of Mr. Venugopal at this stage The development plan includes draft development plan Existence of any draft development plan would authorise the appellant  authority to declare its intention to prepare a town development scheme at any time.	None
The draft development plan was published on 27.06.2003 although it was sent for consideration of the State in terms of Section 19 of the Act on 9.10.2003.	None
The same was returned to the appellant  authority stating that plan to be prepared for the projected population in the year 2021 on or about 4.01.2005.	None
A draft development plan 2021 was published only on 13.07.2007 whereas the declaration by the appellant  authority was notified on 20.08.2004.	None
Submission of Mr. Venugopal that a development plan would include a draft development plan is sought to be made as the statute has interchangeably used draft development plan, sanctioned development plan as development plan and, secondly, on the strength of clause (iv) of Subsection (1) of Section 18 of the Act laying down that a notice shall be issued thereunder containing inter alia the particulars, viz., the provisions for enforcing the draft development plan and stating the manner in which permission for development may be obtained.	None
We do not see any force in the said argument.	Reasoning
It is possible to enforce a draft development plan in a given case, but the statute must specifically provide for the same.	Reasoning
But, a draft development plan which has not attained finality cannot be held to be determinative of the rights and obligations of the parties and, thus, it can never be implemented.	None
Section 50 of the Act explicitly states that the authority may declare its intention to prepare a town development scheme which having regard to Section 2(u) of the Act must be read to mean declaration of its implementation to prepare a scheme for the implementation of the provisions of a development plan.	Arguments of Respondent
We have come across some legislations, as for example, The Himachal Pradesh Town and Country Planning Act, 1977 where a provision has been made for preparation of an interim development plan.	None
It is not in dispute that legislations relating to town and country planning are somewhat similar.	None
Had the legislature thought of implementation of a draft development plan, they could have also provided for an interim development plan which ipso facto would have been enforceable.	None
A development plan even in ordinary parlance can be implemented only when it is final and not when it is at the draft stage, i.e., susceptible to changes.	None
Not only land use may make geographical change, the other details may also undergo a change.	None
The objections and suggestions invited from the general public as also the persons affected may be accepted.	None
There may be realignment.	None
It may undergo serious modifications.	None
Once the legislature has defined a term in the interpretation clause, it is not necessary for it to use the same expression in other provisions of the Act.	None
It is wellsettled that meaning assigned to a term as defined in the interpretation clause unless the context otherwise requires should be given the same meaning.	None
It is also wellsettled that in the absence of any context indicating a contrary intention, the same meaning would be attached to the word used in the later as is given to them in the earlier statute.	None
It is trite that the words or expression used in a statute before and after amendment should be given the same meaning.	None
It is a settled law that when the legislature uses the same words in a similar connection, it is to be presumed that in the absence of any context indicating a contrary intention, the same meaning should attach to the words.	None
See Lenhon v. Gobson Howes Ltd., (1919)	None
AC 709 at 711, Craies on Statute Law, Seventh Edition, page 141 and G.P. Singhs Principles of Statutory Interpretation, Tenth edition, page 278 In Venkata Subamma and another v. Ramayya and others AIR 1932 PC 92 , it is stated that an Act should be interpreted having regard to its history, and the meaning given to a word cannot be read in a different way than what was interpreted in the earlier repealed section.78.	None
Land use, development plan and zonal plan provided for the plan at macro level whereas the town planning scheme is at a micro level and, thus, would be subject to development plan.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, difficult to comprehend that broad based macro level planning may not at all be in place when a town planning scheme is prepared.	None
Once a final plan comes into force, steps inter alia are taken for acquisition of the property.	None
Section 34 of the Act takes care of such a contingency.	None
The town development scheme, as envisaged under Section 49 of the Act, specifically does it.	None
Out of nine clauses contained in Section 49, six relate to acquisition of land for different purposes.	None
Clauses (v), (viii) and (ix) only refer to undertaking of such buildings or construction of work by the authority itself, reconstructions for the purpose of buildings, roads, drains, sewage lines and the similar amenities and any other work of a nature such as would bring about environmental improvements.	None
If the submission of Mr. Venugopal is accepted, a purpose which is otherwise not contemplated under Chapter IV would be brought in by side door in Chapter VII.	None
It is wellsettled that would cannot be done directly cannot be permitted to be done indirectly.	None
The purpose of declaring the intent under Section 50(1) of the Act is to implement a development plan.	None
Section 53 of the Act freezing any other development is an incidence arising consequent to the purpose, which purpose is to implement a development plan.	None
If the purpose of declaring such an intention is merely to bring into play Section 53, and thereby freeze all development, it would amount to exercise of the power of Section 50(1) for a collateral purpose, i.e., freezing of development rather than implementation of a development plan.	None
The collateral purpose also will be to indirectly get over the fact that an owner of land pending finalization of a development plan has all attendant rights of ownership subject to the restraints under Section 16.	None
If the declaration of intent to formulate a town development scheme is to get over Section 16 and freeze development activities under Section 53, it would amount to exercise of power for a collateral purpose.	None
A bare perusal of Sections 17 and 49 would show that it is the development plan which determines the manner of usage of the land and the town development scheme enumerates the manner in which such proposed usage can be implemented.	None
It would follow that until the usage is determined through a development plan, the stage of manner of implementation of such proposed usage cannot be brought about.	None
It would also therefore follow that what is contemplated is the final development plan and not a draft development plan, since until the development plan is finalized it would have no statutory or legal force and the land use as existing prior thereto with the rights of usage of the land arising therefrom would continue.	None
To accept that it is open to the town development authority to declare an intention to formulate a town development scheme even without a development plan and ipso facto bring into play a freeze on usage of the land under Section 53 would lead to complete misuse of powers and arbitrary exercise thereof depriving the citizen of his right to use the land subject to the permitted land use and laws relating to the manner of usage thereof.	None
This would be an unlawful deprivation of the citizens right to property which right includes within it the right to use the property in accordance with the law as it stands at such time.	None
To illustrate the absurdity to which such an interpretation could lead it would then become open to the town development authority to notify an intent to formulate a town development scheme even in the absence of a development plan, freeze all usage of the property by a owner thereof by virtue of Section 53 of the Act, and should no development plan be finalized within 3 years, such scheme would lapse and the authority thereupon would merely notify a fresh intent to formulate a town development scheme and once again freeze the usage of the land for another three years and continue the same ad infinitum thereby in effect completely depriving the citizen of the right to use his property which was in a manner otherwise permitted under law as it stands.	None
The essence of planning in the Act is the existence of a development plan.	None
It is a development plan, which under Section 17 will indicate the areas and zones, the users, the open spaces, the institutions and offices, the special purposes, etc. Town planning would be based on the contents of the development plan.	None
It is only when the development plan is in existence, can a town planning scheme be framed.	None
In fact, unless it is known as to what the contents of a possible town planning scheme would be, or alternatively, whether in terms of the development plan such a scheme at all is required, the intention to frame the scheme cannot be notified.	None
Section 50 of the Act no doubt uses the word at any time.	None
The question, however, is what that would imply.	None
The town planning scheme, it would bear repetition to state, is made for the purpose of implementation of a development plan.	None
Ordinarily, therefore, it would envisage the time period for coming into force of the development plan and the expiry thereof.	None
Unless such a construction is to be given to the words at any time, it would lead to manifest injustice and absurdity which is not contemplated by the statute.	None
For giving an effective meaning to the provisions of Section 50 of the Act, the same is required to be read in the context of other provisions of the statute and in particular the interpretation clauses which we have noticed hereinbefore.	None
Section 50(1) of the Act provide for declaration of this intention to prepare town development scheme at any time.	None
The words at any time do not confer upon any statutory authority an unfettered discretion to frame the town development scheme whenever it is so pleases.	None
The words at any time are not charter for the exercise of an arbitrary decision as and when a scheme has to be framed.	None
The words at any time have no exemption from all forms of limitation for unexplained and undue delay.	None
Such an interpretation would not only result in the destruction of citizens rights but would also go contrary to the entire context in which the power has been given to the authority.	None
The words at any time have to be interpreted in the context in which they are used.	None
Since a town development scheme in the context of the Act is intended to implement the development plan, the declaration of intention to prepare a scheme can only be in the context of a development plan.	None
The starting point of the declaration of the intention has to be upon the notification of development plan and the outer limit for the authority to frame such a scheme upon lapsing of the plan.	None
That is the plausible interpretation of the words at any time used in Section 50(1) of the Act.	None
See State of H.P. Ors.	None
v. Rajkumar Brijender Singh Ors., (2004) 10 SCC 585 For construing a statute of this nature, we are dealing with, rule of purposive construction has to be applied.	None
In Francis Bennions Statutory Interpretation, purposive construction has been described as under A purposive construction of an enactment is one which gives effect to the legislative purpose by(a) following the literal meaning of the enactment where that meaning is in accordance with the legislative purpose (in this Code called a purposiveandliteral construction), or(b) applying a strained meaning where the literal meaning is not in accordance with the legislative purpose (in the Code called a purposiveandstrained construction).	None
See also Bombay Dyeing and Mfg. Co. Ltd. v. Bombay Environmental Action Group and Ors., (2006) 3 SCC 434 and National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Laxmi Narain Dhut, 2007 (4) SCALE 36 In Maruti Udyog Ltd. v. Ram Lal and Others (2005) 2 SCC 638 , while interpreting the provisions of Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, the rule of purposive construction was followed.	None
In Reserve Bank of India v. Peerless General Finance and Investment Co. Ltd. (1987) 1 SCC 424 this Court stated If a statute is looked at, in the context of its enactment, with the glasses of the statutemaker, provided by such context, its scheme, the sections, clauses, phrases and words may take colour and appear different than when the statute is looked at without the glasses provided by the context.	None
With these glasses we must look at the Act as a whole and discover what each section, each clause, each phrase and each word is meant and designed to say as to fit into the scheme of the entire Act.	None
In The Interpretation and Application of Statutes by Reed Dickerson, the author at p.135 has discussed the subject while dealing with the importance of context of the statute in the following terms The essence of the language is to reflect, express, and perhaps even affect the conceptual matrix of established ideas and values that identifies the culture to which it belongs.	None
For this reason, language has been called conceptual map of human experience.	None
See also High Court of Gujarat v. Gujarat Kishan Mazdoor Panchayat, (2003) 4 SCC 712 , Indian Handicrafts Emporium and Others v. Union of India and Others, (2003) 7 SCC 589 and Deepal Girishbhai Soni and Others v. United India Insurance Co. Ltd., Baroda, (2004) 5 SCC 385 , para 56 Delegation An area conceived of under the Act, as noticed hereinbefore, consists of both plan area and nonplan area.	None
Development of plan area may be in phases.	None
A master plan may be followed by a zonal plan and a zonal plan may be followed by a town development scheme.	None
The limit of Indore planning area was specified by a notification dated 13.02.1974 in terms of Subsection (1) of Section 13 of the Act.	Facts
Appellant  Authority was constituted by the State of Madhya Pradesh in exercise of its power under Section 38(1) of the Act for the area comprised within the Indore planning as specified in the notification dated 13.02.1974.	None
The State in exercise of its jurisdiction under Subsection (1) of Section 75 of the Act delegated its power conferred upon it under Sections 13 and 47A of the Act upon the District Planning Committee.	None
No power under Section 38 was delegated.	None
The District Planning Committee exercises its jurisdiction pursuant to the said delegation in terms of a notification dated 13.11.2000 extending the Indore Development Planning Area to 152 villages.	None
The villages Bicholi and Kanadia were not included in the notification dated 12.08.1977.	None
They were included only in the notification issued by the District Planning Committee.	None
The District Planning Committee, however, issued another notification amending the planning area to 90 villages only and deleting 62 villages from its earlier notification.	None
There cannot be any doubt whatsoever that even a delegatee exercises its power relying on or on the basis of its power conferred upon it by the delegator, its act would be deemed to be that of the principal as has been held by this Court in State of Orissa and Others v. Commissioner of Land Records and Settlement, Cuttack and Others (1998) 7 SCC 162 , this Court held We have to note that the Commissioner when he exercises power of the Board delegated to him under Section 33 of the Settlement Act, 1958, the order passed by him is to be treated as an order of the Board of Revenue and not as that of the Commissioner in his capacity as Commissioner.	None
This position is clear from two rulings of this Court to which we shall presently refer.	None
The first of the said rulings is the one decided by the Constitution Bench of this Court in Roop Chand v. State of Punjab 3.	None
In that case, it was held by the majority that where the State Government had, under Section 41(1) of the East Punjab Holdings (Consolidation and Prevention of Fragmentation) Act, 1948, delegated its appellate powers vested in it under Section 21(4) to an officer, an order passed by such an officer was an order passed by the State Government itself and not an order passed by any officer under this Act within Section 42 and was not revisable by the State Government.	None
It was pointed out that for the purpose of exercise of powers of revision by the State under Section 42 of that Act, the order sought to be revised must be an order passed by an officer in his own right and not as a delegate of the State.	None
The State Government was, therefore, not entitled under Section 42 to call for the records of the case which was disposed of by an officer acting as its delegate.	None
Whether issuance of notification by the delegatee would automatically extend the jurisdiction of the appellant is the question.	None
Before we consider the legal issues involved, we may notice that the appellant filed an application before the High Court wherein it was stated The respondent no. 2 submits that though in 2004 itself the State Government had in principle agreed to extend the area of the Indore Development Authority u s 38 of the Adhiniyam, the said decision could not be implemented because of certain procedural and other difficulties.	None
Subsequently, when the respondent no. 2 took up the matter with the State Government, it insisted that in the absence of a formal request from the IDA it could not extend its area u s 38 of the Adhiniyam.	None
Accordingly, the respondent no. 2 had submitted its formal request by its aforesaid letter dated 14/10/2005.	None
The State, it is interesting to note, took a similar plea when the appellant  authority sought permission for new Transport Nagar Scheme on 265 hectares of land situated in village Mundrla Nayata by its letter dated 23.08.2005 stating Please refer the reference letter by which the Indore Development Authority sought permission for new Transport Nagar Scheme on 265 hectares of land situated in village Mundrla Nayata.(1)	None
In this regard opinion of law department has been received and as per that in the year 1977 the areas of Indore Development Authority was prescribed whereas the questioned scheme is failing beyond the prescribed operational area.(2)	None
Although as per letter dated 28th June, 2002, the planning area of Indore city is extended but the operational area of Indore Development Authority has not been extended.	None
At present, Indore Development Plan, 1991 is in force and new Development Plan is being prepared.(3)	None
Thus, the Indore Development Authority is not competent to declare Town Development Scheme beyond its prescribed operational area.	None
Yet again, the State in exercise of its power under Section 38(1) of the Act notified planning area confirming to the one identified by the District Planning Committee in terms of its notification dated 28.10.2005.	None
How State understood it Application of the principle of executive construction would lead to a conclusion that the State and the appellant themselves proceeded on the basis that in terms of the notification issued by the District Planning Committee, the area of operation of the appellant was not extended.	None
In G.P. Singhs Principles of Statutory Interpretation, 10th Edn.	None
at p. 319, it is stated But a uniform and consistent departmental practice arising out of construction placed upon an ambiguous statute by the highest executive officers at or near the time of its enactment and continuing for a long period of time is an admissible aid to the proper construction of the statute by the Court and would not be disregarded except for cogent reasons.	None
The controlling effect of this aid which is known as executive construction would depend upon various factors such as the length of time for which it is followed, the nature of rights and property affected by it, the injustice result from its departure and the approval that it has received in judicial decisions or in legislation.	None
Relying upon this principle, the Supreme Court in Ajay Gandhi v. B. Singh having regard to the fact that the President of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal had been from its inception in 1941 exercising the power of transfer of the members of the Tribunal to the places where Benches of the Tribunal were functioning, held construing sections 251(1) and 255(5) of the Income Tax Act that the President under these provisions has the requisite power of transfer and posting of its members.	None
The court observed For construction of a statute, it is trite, the actual practice may be taken into consideration.	None
Contemporary official statements throwing light on the construction of a statute and statutory instruments made under it have been used as contemporanea expositio to interpret not only ancient but even recent statute both in England and India.	None
See also S.B. Bhattacharjee v. S.D. Majumdar Ors., Civil Appeal arising out of S.L.P. (Civil) No. 3413 of 2006, disposed of today.	None
Exercise of delegated power  effect of The State exercises its different power for different purposes.	None
Issuing notification of a planning area, whether named or not, for the purpose of Section 13(1) is different from the one for which a development authority is created within the meaning of Section 38(1) of the Act.	None
The State in a given situation may appoint more than one authority for the same planned area.	None
The State delegated its power upon the District Planning Authority under Section 38 of the Act.	None
The appellant  authority was created for a definite purpose.	None
Its jurisdiction was limited to the area notified.	None
When so creating, although 1974 notification was referred to, the same was only for the purpose of limiting the area of operation of the appellant  authority.	None
The principle of legislation by incorporation was applied and not the principle of legislation by reference.	None
The difference between the two principles is wellknown.	None
Whereas in the case of the former, a further notification amending the ambit or scope of the statute would be necessary, if the statute incorporated by reference is amended, in the latter it would not be necessary.	None
In Rakesh Vij v. Dr. Raminder Pal Singh Sethi and Ors.	None
AIR 2005 SC 3593 , this Court observed Adopting or applying an earlier or existing Act by competent Legislature to a later Act is an accepted device of Legislation.	None
If the adopting Act refers to certain provisions of an earlier existing Act, it is known as legislation by reference.	None
Whereas if the provisions of another Act are bodily lifted and incorporated in the Act, then it is known as legislation by incorporation.	None
The determination whether a legislation was by way of incorporation or reference is more a matter of construction by the courts keeping in view the language employed by the Act, the purpose of referring or incorporating provisions of an existing Act and the effect of it on the daytoday working.	None
Reason for it is the courts prime duty to assume that any law made by the Legislature is enacted to serve public purpose It is furthermore a wellsettled principle of law that a delegatee must exercise its jurisdiction within the fourcorners of its delegation.	None
If it could not exercise its delegated power for the purpose of creation of the appellant authority or extended its jurisdiction, in our opinion, it cannot be done by amendment of a notification issued under Section 13(1) of the Act.	Reasoning
We may at this juncture notice the effect of the notifications issued by the authority ?	None
It is a matter of record that the notification issued on 13.02.1974 under Section 13 notifying the planning area, did not include land of Respondent No. 1. ?	None
It is also a matter of record that the Indore Development Plan, 1991 notified in 1975 does not admittedly include the village in which the land of Respondent No. 1 is situate. ?	None
The notification issued under Section 38(1) of the Act on 09.05.1977 is also limited to the area specified in the notification dated 13.02.1974 and admittedly does not include the land of Respondent No. 1.	None
Admittedly, the villages in question had been included by the State in its notification issued on 28.10.2005.	Reasoning
Prior thereto, the said villages having not been included within the area of operation of the appellant authority, any action taken either by way of its intention to frame a town planning scheme or otherwise shall be wholly illegal and without jurisdiction.	Reasoning
It would render its act in relation to the said villages a nullity.108.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, difficult for us to accept the submission of Mr. Venugopal and Mr. Gambhir that the notification dated 13.11.2000 subsumes in the notification dated 12.08.1977.109.	Reasoning
For the reasons aforementioned, we do not have any other option but to uphold the impugned judgment of the High Court.	None
We may, however, observe that several other contentions, as noticed hereinbefore, have been raised before us but we do not find any necessity to go thereinto.	None
Should we issue Mandamus?	None
Before parting, however, we must notice a submission of Mr. C.A. Sundaram, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents, to the effect that the High Court committed a manifest error insofar as it limited its direction only to the following The impugned order dated 17.5.2006 of the learned Single Judge in W.P. No. 4 of 2005 is set aside and the notification dated 24.8.2004 of the Indore Development Authority insofar as it applies to village Bicholi Hapsi and the communication of the Joint Director, Town and Country Planning, Indore to the appellant that he cannot approve the plan for construction of the house of the appellant because of the publication of the Draft Scheme No. 164 U s. 50(2) of the Adhiniyam are quashed and the Director is directed to reconsider the application of the petitioner for permission to undertake construction of the house in accordance with the provisions of the Adhiniyam and the observations in this judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel would submit that the said direction is not correct as the High Court should have directed the Director to consider the respondents application in accordance with the law as it existed at the relevant point of time.	Arguments of Respondent
We do not subscribe to the said view as it is now wellknown that that where a statute provides for a right, but enforcement thereof is in several stages, unless and until the conditions precedent laid down therein are satisfied, no right can be said to have been vested in the person concerned.113.	None
In Director of Public Works v. Ho Po Sang 1961 AC 901 (1961) 2 All ER 721, the Privy Council considered the said question having regard to the repealing provisions of the Landlord and Tenant Ordinance, 1947 as amended on 941957.	None
It was held that having regard to the repeal of Sections 3A to 3E, when applications remained pending, no accrued or vested right was derived stating In summary, the application of the second appellant for a rebuilding certificate conferred no right on him which was preserved after the repeal of Sections 3A to 3E, but merely conferred hope or expectation that the GovernorinCouncil would exercise his executive or ministerial discretion in his favour and the first appellant would thereafter issue a certificate.	Reasoning
Similarly, the issue by the first appellant of notice of intention to grant a rebuilding certificate conferred no right on the second appellant which was preserved after the repeal, but merely instituted a procedure whereby the matter could be referred to the GovernorinCouncil.	Reasoning
The repeal disentitled the first appellant from thereafter issuing any rebuilding certificate where the matter had been referred by petition to the GovernorinCouncil but had not been determined by the Governor.	Reasoning
See also Lakshmi Amma v. Devassy 1970 KLT 204114.	Reasoning
The question again came up for consideration in Howrah Municipal Corpn.	Reasoning
v. Ganges Rope Co. Ltd. (2004) 1 SCC 663 , wherein this Court categorically held The context in which the respondent Company claims a vested right for sanction and which has been accepted by the Division Bench of the High Court, is not a right in relation to ownership or possession of any property for which the expression vest is generally used.	Reasoning
What we can understand from the claim of a vested right set up by the respondent Company is that on the basis of the Building Rules, as applicable to their case on the date of making an application for sanction and the fixed period allotted by the Court for its consideration, it had a legitimate or settled expectation to obtain the sanction.	Reasoning
In our considered opinion, such settled expectation, if any, did not create any vested right to obtain sanction.	Reasoning
True it is, that the respondent Company which can have no control over the manner of processing of application for sanction by the Corporation cannot be blamed for delay but during pendency of its application for sanction, if the State Government, in exercise of its rulemaking power, amended the Building Rules and imposed restrictions on the heights of buildings on G.T. Road and other wards, such settled expectation has been rendered impossible of fulfilment due to change in law.	Reasoning
The claim based on the alleged vested right or settled expectation cannot be set up against statutory provisions which were brought into force by the State Government by amending the Building Rules and not by the Corporation against whom such vested right or settled expectation is being sought to be enforced.	Reasoning
The vested right or settled expectation has been nullified not only by the Corporation but also by the State by amending the Building Rules.	Reasoning
Besides this, such a settled expectation or the socalled vested right cannot be countenanced against public interest and convenience which are sought to be served by amendment of the Building Rules and the resolution of the Corporation issued thereupon.	Reasoning
In Union of India v. Indian Charge Chrome (1999) 7 SCC 314 , yet again this Court emphasized The application has to be decided in accordance with the law applicable on the date on which the authority granting the registration is called upon to apply its mind to the prayer for registration.	Reasoning
In S.B. International Ltd. v. Asstt.	Reasoning
Director General of Foreign Trade (1996) 2 SCC 439 , this Court repelled a contention that the authorities cannot take advantage of their own wrong viz.	Reasoning
delay in issuing the advance licence, stating We have mentioned hereinbefore that issuance of these licences is not a formality nor a mere ministerial function but that it requires due verification and formation of satisfaction as to compliance with all the relevant provisions.	Reasoning
See also Kuldeep Singh v. Govt.	None
NCT of Delhi (2006) 5 SCC 702 117.	Reasoning
For the reasons aforementioned, there is no merit in these appeals which are dismissed accordingly.	Decision
There shall, however, be no order as to costs.	Decision
