 Gopala Gowda, J. These appeals have been filed by the Appellant against the impugned common judgment and order dated 18.6.2013 passed in First Appeal No. 1064 of 2005 with First Appeal No. 1555 of 2005 by the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad, wherein the High Court dismissed First Appeal No. 1064 of 2005 which was filed by the claimant and allowed First Appeal No. 1555 of 2005 which was filed by the Insurance Company.	None
The necessary relevant facts are stated hereunder to appreciate the case with a view to determine whether the Appellant, Ashvinbhai Jayantilal Modi, the father of Raj (deceased) is entitled for relief as prayed in this appeal.	Facts
On 12.07.2002, Raj Ashvinbhai, the deceased was heading to Istanpur from Uttamnagar on his twowheeler.	None
While on his way, near Bhadvatnagar bus stand, a truck bearing registration No. GQA 7215 belonging to the Respondent, Ramkaran Ramchandra Sharma crashed into the twowheeler on which Raj was riding.	None
Due to the force created by this accident, Rajs twowheeler slid for about 25 feet while Raj fell down and sustained grievous injuries.	Facts
Thereupon he was taken to L.G. Hospital wherein he succumbed to his injuries.	Facts
On the same day, a panchnama was filed before the Vatva Police Station, Ahmedabad.	None
The claimantAppellant filed a claim petition before the Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal (in short the Tribunal) at Ahmedabad, claiming Rs.	None
28,73,000/ as compensation.	None
The Tribunal ascertained the future income of the deceased at Rs. 18,000/ per month.	None
1/3rd of the monthly income was deducted towards personal expenses.	Facts
Therefore, Rs. 12,000/ per month (Rs. 1,44,000/ p.a.) was calculated for the loss of dependency to the parents of the deceased.	None
Since the age of the deceased at the time of his death was 19 years, on applying the appropriate multiplier of 16, the total compensation towards loss of dependency was arrived at Rs. 23,04,000/. A sum of Rs. 15,000/ was awarded towards love and affection and Rs. 5,000/ towards funeral expenses and thus a total compensation of Rs.	Facts
23,24,000/ was arrived at by the Tribunal.	None
The Tribunal apportioned contributory negligence at 20 on the part of the deceased and 80 on the driver of the offending truck and thus, after making 20 deduction towards contributory negligence on the part of the deceased the Tribunal awarded an amount of Rs.	Facts
18,59,200/ with interest at the rate of 9 per annum to the Appellant.	None
Being aggrieved by the judgment and award passed by the Tribunal, the Appellant preferred First Appeal No. 1064 of 2005 before the High Court for enhancement of compensation, whereas the 2nd RespondentInsurance Company preferred First Appeal No. 1555 of 2005 for the reduction of the compensation awarded by the Tribunal.	None
After hearing the parties, the High Court affirmed the future income of the deceased at Rs. 18,000/ per month as determined by the Tribunal and deducted 50 towards personal expenses.	None
It further held that the Tribunal had erred in considering the age of the deceased at the time of his death rather than the age of the parents for determination of multiplier, since they are the claimants in the case on hand, as per the guidelines laid down in Sarla Verma and Ors.	Issue
v. Delhi Transport Corporation and Anr.	None
(2009)6 SCC 121 Therefore, by applying the appropriate multiplier of 13, the High Court determined the loss of dependency at Rs.	None
14,04,000/ as against Rs.	None
23,04,000/ as considered by the Tribunal.	None
After examining the facts, evidence produced on record and circumstances of the case, the High Court was of the view that the contributory negligence on the part of the deceased was higher than 20, however, it affirmed the contributory negligence as determined by the Tribunal.	Issue
Therefore, after 20 deduction towards contributory negligence and addition towards other heads, the High Court, by its impugned judgment and order awarded a compensation under all heads of Rs.	Facts
11,39,200/ with 9 interest per annum.	None
Aggrieved by the same, the Appellant has filed these appeals.	None
It has been contended by the learned Senior Counsel for the Appellant Mr. Fakriddin that the offending truck hit the twowheeler from behind.	Arguments of Petitioner
As a result, the deceased fell down and his twowheeler was dragged by the offending truck up to a distance of about 25 feet.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, the finding of the Tribunal as well as the High Court towards contributory negligence of the deceased at 20 is uncalled for.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further it was contended that the High Court has reduced the compensation from Rs.	None
18,59,200/ to Rs.	None
11,39,200/ which is contrary to the principles laid down by this Court in Sanobanu Nazirbhai Mirza and Ors.	None
v. Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (2013) 9	None
SCR 882.	None
On the other hand, the learned Counsel for the Respondents contended that the High Court has rightly reduced the compensation by deducting 50 for personal expenses of the deceased since he was unmarried at the time of his death and adopted a multiplier of 13 by considering the age of the parents as per the guidelines laid down by this Court in the case of Sarla Verma (supra).	Arguments of Respondent
We have heard the learned Counsel for the parties.	None
In our considered view, the deceased was 19 years old and was pursuing his medical degree with good marks at the time of the accident.	Reasoning
With respect to the future income of students pursuing professional courses we refer to Arvind Kumar Mishra v. New India Assurance Co. Ltd and Anr.	Reasoning
(2010) 10 SCC 254 , wherein this Court held as under On completion of Bachelor of Engineering (Mechanical) from the prestigious institute like B.I.T., it can be reasonably assumed that he would have got a good job.	Reasoning
The Appellant has stated in his evidence that in the campus interview he was selected by Tata as well as Reliance Industries and was offered pay package of Rs. 3,50,000/ per annum.	Reasoning
Even if that is not accepted for want of any evidence in support thereof, there would not have been any difficulty for him in getting some decent job in the private sector.	Reasoning
Had he decided to join government service and got selected, he would have been put in the pay scale for Assistant Engineer and would have at least earned Rs. 60,000/ per annum.	Reasoning
Wherever he joined, he had a fair chance of some promotion and remote chance of some high position.	Reasoning
But uncertainties of life cannot be ignored taking relevant factors into consideration.	Reasoning
In our opinion, it is fair and reasonable to assess his future earnings at Rs. 60,000/ per annum taking the salary and allowances payable to an Assistant Engineer in public employment as the basis The Tribunal and the High Court have not taken into proper consideration that the deceased was a student of medicine at the time of the accident while determining his future income.	Reasoning
The courts below have wrongly ascertained the future income of the deceased at only Rs. 18,000/ per month, which in our view is too less for a medical graduate these days.	Reasoning
Therefore, the courts below have failed in following the principles laid down by this Court in this aspect in the above case.	None
The deceased was a diligent and outstanding student of medicine who could have pursued his M.D. after his graduation and reached greater heights.	Reasoning
Today, medical practice is one of the most sought after and rewarding professions.	Reasoning
With the tremendous increase in demand for medical professionals, their salaries are also on the rise.	Reasoning
Therefore, we have no doubt in ascertaining the future income of the deceased at Rs. 25,000/ p.m. i.e. Rs. 3,00,000/ p.a.	None
Further, deducting 1/3rd of the annual income towards personal expenses as per Oriental Insurance Company Ltd. v. Deo Patodi and Ors.	None
(2009)13 SCC 123 , and applying the appropriate multiplier of 13, keeping in mind the age of the parent of the deceased, as per the guidelines laid down in Sarla Verma case (supra), we arrive at a total loss of dependency at Rs.	None
26,00,000/ (Rs. 3,00,000/ minus 1/3 X Rs.	None
3,00,000/)X 13.	None
Further, the Tribunal and the High Court have erred in not following the principles laid down by this Court in M. Mansoor and Anr.	None
v. United India Insurance Co. Ltd. 2013 (12) SCALE 324 in awarding a meagre sum of just Rs. 15,000/ under the heads of loss of love and affection.	None
Accordingly, we award Rs. 1,00,000/ to the Appellant towards the same.	None
With regard to the apportionment made by the Tribunal and the High Court, we are of the view, after considering the facts, evidence produced on record and circumstances of the case on hand, that there was no negligence on the part of the deceased.	Reasoning
The courts below have failed to examine the facts of the case on hand with respect to the opinion of this Court given in Juju Kuruvila and Ors.	Reasoning
v. Kunjujamma Mohan and Ors.	None
(2013)9 SCC 166 From the evidence produced on record, the twowheeler of the deceased was dragged up to a stretch of about 2025 feet on the road after the collision with the offending truck.	None
We are of the considered view, that to be able to create this kind of enormous effect on the twowheeler of the deceased, the offending truck must have been travelling at a fairly high speed and that its driver did not have sufficient control over his vehicle.	Reasoning
The driver of the offending truck should have been aware that he was driving the heavy motor vehicle and taken sufficient caution.	None
We do not see any direct evidence that shows negligence on the part of the deceased that led to the accident.	Reasoning
Therefore, as per the principles laid down by this Court in the case referred to above in this aspect, the contributory negligence apportioned by the courts below on the part of the deceased is set aside.	None
The Tribunal and the High Court have further failed in awarding only Rs. 5,000/ towards funeral expenses instead of Rs.	None
25,000/ according to the principles laid down by this Court in Rajesh and Ors.	None
v. Rajbir Singh and Ors.	None
(2013) 9 SCC 54	None
Hence, we award Rs. 25,000/ towards the same.	None
In the result, the Appellant shall be entitled to compensation under the following heads Thus, the total compensation payable to the Appellant by the RespondentInsurance Company will be Rs.	None
27,25,000/ with interest at the rate of 9 p.a.	None
from the date of filing of the application till the date of payment.	Reasoning
Accordingly, we allow these appeals in awarding Rs.	None
27,25,000/ with interest 9 p.a.	None
The RespondentInsurance Company shall either pay by way of demand draft in favour of the Appellant or deposit the same with interest as awarded before the Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal after deducting the amount already paid to the Appellant, if any, within six weeks from the date of receipt of the copy of this judgment.	Decision
No Costs.	Decision
