 Dr. Arijit Pasayat, J. Leave granted.	None
Challenge in this appeal is to the order passed by a Division Bench of the Orissa High Court disposing of the writ petition without any decision on merits because in respect of the assessment year in question, i.e. 200102, an order was earlier passed by this Court on 31.03.2006.	Issue
A brief reference to the factual aspects will be necessary.	Facts
The appellant, a Public Sector Undertaking carries on business in manufacture and sale of Iron Steel and Chemical Fertiliser as its finished product and biproduct, surplus and rejected articles, in course of interstate trade and commerce and export.	Facts
Apart from that, the appellantCompany effects transfer of stock of goods to its branches located at various places of the country.	Facts
For the assessment year 200102, notice was issued under Rule 12(5) of the Central Sales Tax (Orissa), Rules, 1957 (in short Central Rules) for the purpose of assessment under Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (in short the Act).	Facts
After examination of the books of accounts produced, an extra demand of Rs.19,25,41,763.00 was raised.	Facts
The appellantCompany had disclosed net sale and transfer of goods during the year under assessment in question as follows Sales U s 8(l)(a)(b)  	None
Rs.714,18,82,639.06 Sales U s 8(2)(b)  	None
Rs.	None
10,37,23,857.45 Export Sales  Rs.	None
10,95,977.00 Branch Stock transfer  Rs.1130,24,48,338.61 Total  Rs.1854,91,50,812.12	None
The Assessing Officer found that certain declaration forms in Form C were not produced and, therefore, the differential tax was to be levied.	Facts
With reference to Clause (a) of Section 3, it was held that the sales made under the Annual Memorandum of Understanding (M0U), which were treated as Bank transfers are in fact, sales made in course of interstate trade and commerce and, therefore, are subject to tax.	Facts
Accordingly tax was levied.	Facts
Questioning correctness of the assessment made, an appeal was preferred before the Assistant Commissioner of Sales Tax, Sundergarh Range, Rourkela.	Facts
During the pendency of the appeal, an application for stay was filed.	Facts
The Assistant Commissioner directed payment of part of the demand.	Facts
An application for revision was filed before the Commissioner, who, by order dated 28.12.2005 in Revision Case No. SU87/0506 directed payment of Rs.10.00 Crores.	Facts
A Writ Petition was filed before the High Court pointing out that the decision of this Court in Ashok Leyland Ltd.	Facts
Vs.	Facts
State of Tamil Nadu Anr.	Facts
(2004 (3) SCC 1 ) had full application.	Facts
A Division Bench of the High Court, by order dated 15.02.2006 directed deposit of Rs.2.00 Crores.	Facts
The said order was questioned in S.L.P.(C) No.5314/2006.	Facts
In the said special leave petition, several States and Union Territories were impleaded as opposite parties because it was pointed out that requisite tax under the Act had already been paid in different States and Union territories.	Facts
This Court passed the following order on 31.03.2006 Issue notice.	Facts
There shall be interim stay in the meanwhile.	None
Any payment already made in compliance of the High Courts order shall be without prejudice to the claims involved.	None
A few days thereafter, on 19.04.2006, the Assistant Commissioner disposed of the appeal filed dismissing the same and confirming the order of assessment.	None
A Second Appeal was filed before the Orissa Sales Tax Tribunal (in short the Tribunal).	None
An application for stay was also filed.	None
By order dated 14.08.2006, the Commissioner directed deposit of Rs.15.00 Crores.	None
The said order was challenged before the High Court and, as noted above, by the impugned order, the High Court disposed of the said petition without expressing any opinion on merits but observing that the matter was under examination by this Court.	None
Though various points were urged in respect of the appeal, learned counsel for the appellant submitted that even without examination of various issues raised, by a cryptic and practically nonreasoned order, the Assistant Commissioner has dismissed the appeal filed.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that a statutory appeal should not be disposed of in such a casual manner.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is pointed out that notwithstanding the fact that tax has been paid in several States where the articles transferred the Branches have been sold, the State has erroneously treated the transactions to be interstate sale and levied tax which in essence amounts to double taxation.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that this is nothing but an attempt to collect tax illegally.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not legal and is in clear violation of Article 265 of the Constitution of India, 1950 (in short the Constitution).	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also pointed out that the ratio of the decision of this Court in Ashok Leyland Limited v. Union of India Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1997 (9) SCC 10 ) has not been kept in view.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that an amendment to the Act has been made and Section 19 has been introduced which reads as follows Central Sales Tax Appellate Authority (1) The Central Government shall constitute, by notification in the Official Gazette, an Authority to settle interState disputes falling under Section 6A read with Section 9 of this Act, to be known as the Central Sales Tax Appellate Authority (hereinafter referred to as the Authority).	None
(2) The Authority shall consist of the following Members appointed by the Central Government, namely (a) a Chairman, who is a retired Judge of the Supreme Court, or a retired Chief Justice of a High Court (b) an officer of the Indian Legal Service who is, or is qualified to be, an Additional Secretary to the Government of India and (c) an officer of a State Government not below the rank of Secretary or an officer of the Central Government not below the rank of Additional Secretary, who is an expert in sales tax matter.	None
(2A) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (2), the Chairman or a Member holding a post as such in the Authority for Advance Rulings appointed under clause (a) or clause (c), as the case may be, of subsection (2) of Section 2450 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 may, in addition to his being the Chairman or a Member of that Authority, be appointed as the Chairman or a Member, as the case may be, of the Authority under this Act.	None
(3) The salaries and allowances payable to, and the terms and conditions of service of, the Chairman and Members shall be such as may be prescribed.	None
(4) The Central Government shall provide the Authority with such officers and staff as may be necessary for the efficient exercise of the powers of the Authority under this Act.	None
It is pointed out that ultimately the Central Sales Tax Appellate Authority can decide the matter after the Tribunal in the concerned State decides the matter.	None
It is the stand of the appellant that the Forum provided under the Statute is being rendered uneffective by the casual disposal of the appeal.	None
Learned counsel for the respondentState of Orissa, however, submitted that when the assessee has already availed the statutory remedy, no interference is called for.	Arguments of Respondent
In normal course, we would not have entertained the plea relating to the merits of the assessment when a statutory remedy has been availed.	None
But what shocks us is the casual manner in which the first appellate authority has disposed of the appeal.	None
The appellate order covers pages 36 to 42 in the paper book.	None
The first page and a part of the second page deal with various data relating to the assessment order, the assessing officer, the registration number and the details of turnovers and the tax etc.	None
In paragraph (2), the observations of the assessing officer are noted and in paragraph 3, starting from pages 39 to 41, different stands of the appellant have been noted.	None
In paragraph 4, the conclusions of the first appellate authority are noted.	None
They read as follows I have carefully gone through the impugned order of assessment, averments of the learned advocate and the materials available on record.	None
On the first point of dispute regarding the claim of the appellant towards refund of Tax of Rs.14,59.122.52 collected from the bidders, before this forum also the Appellant failed to adduce any evidences regarding refund of tax to such bidders from whom tax was collected.	None
In absence of such documentary evidences, the claim of the appellant is not credible.	None
On the second point of dispute regarding levy of tax on the sale turnover of Rs,1,21,03375.18 due to non furnishing of declarations in forms.	None
Hence, there is no interference from this forum on the observation of the learned S.T.O., in levying tax under Section 8 (2) (B) of the CST Act.	None
Lastly on the point of rejection of the claim of the appellant towards branch transfer of goods valued at Rs.241,87,42,357.93 from the order of assessment it is found that the learned S.T.O. on due verification and proper examination of the material evidences has rightly taken by the learned counsel of the appellant company and the decisions of the different courts cited are not applicable in the present case, the same is not considered.	None
A bare reading of the order shows complete nonapplication of mind.	None
As rightly pointed out by learned counsel for the appellant, this is not the way a statutory appeal is to be disposed of.	None
Various important questions of law were raised.	None
Unfortunately, even they were not dealt by the first appellate authority.	None
Reason is the heartbeat of every conclusion.	None
It introduces clarity in an order and without the same it becomes lifeless.	None
(See Raj Kishore Jha v. State of Bihar 2003 (11) SCC 519 )	None
Even in respect of administrative orders Lord Denning, M.R. in Breen v. Amalgamated Engg. Union (1971) 1	Reasoning
All ER 1148, observed The giving of reasons is one of the fundamentals of good administration.	Reasoning
In Alexander Machinery (Dudley) Ltd. v. Crabtree 1974 ICR 120 (NIRC) it was observed Failure to give reasons amounts to denial of justice.	Reasoning
Reasons are live links between the mind of the decisiontaker to the controversy in question and the decision or conclusion arrived at.	Reasoning
Reasons substitute subjectivity by objectivity.	Reasoning
The emphasis on recording reasons is that if the decision reveals the inscrutable face of the sphinx, it can, by its silence, render it virtually impossible for the courts to perform their appellate function or exercise the power of judicial review in adjudging the validity of the decision.	Reasoning
Right to reason is an indispensable part of a sound judicial system reasons at least sufficient to indicate an application of mind to the matter before court.	Reasoning
Another rationale is that the affected party can know why the decision has gone against him.	Reasoning
One of the salutary requirements of natural justice is spelling out reasons for the order made in other words, a speakingout.	Reasoning
The inscrutable face of the sphinx is ordinarily incongruous with a judicial or quasijudicial performance.	Reasoning
Therefore, in terms of the observations made by this Court while issuing notice on 19.10.2006, we set aside the impugned order of the Assistant Commissioner and remit the matter to him for a fresh consideration of the appeal.	Decision
Needless to say, he has to dispose of the appeal by a reasoned order dealing with all the points of challenge highlighted by the appellant.	Decision
We make it clear that we have not expressed any opinion on the merits of the case.	Decision
Considering the fact that similar disputes are a recurring feature, the first appellate authority would do well to dispose of the appeal within a period of six months from the date of receipt of copy of our order.	Decision
The appeal is allowed to the aforesaid extent without any order as to costs.	Decision
