 Gajendragadkar, J.1.	None
This appeal has been brought to this Court with a certificate granted by the Madras High Court and it arises from a suit filed by the appellants Mallesappa and Chenna Basappa against their uncle Mallappa, respondent 1 and granduncle Honnappa, respondent 2, for partition.	Issue
According to the plaint, the family of the appellants and respondent 1 was an undivided Hindu family until the date of the suit, and respondent 1 was its manager.	Facts
The ancestor of the family was Desai Mallappa.	Facts
He had three sons Kari Ramappa who dies in 1933, Virupakshappa who died long go and Honnappa respondent 2.	Facts
Kari Ramappa had four sons Gurushantappa (died 1913), Bandappa (died 1931), Mallappa (respondent 1) and Verrabhadrappa (dies 1927).	Facts
Gurushanrappa married Parvathamma the two appellants are the sons of Bandappa, their mother being Neelamma.	Facts
They were born in 1926 and 1929 respectively.	Facts
Their case was that respondent 1 who has been the manager of the family for many years has been trying to deprive them of their legitimate share in the property and refused their request for partition, and so they had to file the present suit.	Facts
According to them, in the property of the family they and respondent 1 were entitled to half share each.	Facts
To the plaint were attached the schedules describing the several items of property.	Facts
Schedule A consisted of items 1 to 163 which included houses and lands at Jonnagiri.	Facts
Schedule B described the movables while Schedule C included items 1 to 35 all of which had been acquired by the family under a document Ex. B32.	Facts
It is in respect of all these properties that the appellants claimed their half share and asked for a partition in that behalf.2.	Facts
This claim was resisted by respondent 1 principally on the ground that in 1929 Ramappa, the father of respondent 1 and the grandfather of the appellants had effected a partition of the joint family properties between respondent 1 and his elder father.	Facts
That is how, according to respondent 1, the appellants claim for partition was untenable.	Facts
In this way he pleaded separate title to all the properties in suit.3.	Facts
On these pleadings the learned District Judge, who tried the suit, framed eight issues two of these related to the question regarding the status of the family.	Facts
He found that the plea of partition made by respondent 1 was no proved, and accordingly he declared that the appellants were entitled to half share in the properties of the family and passed a preliminary decree for partition.	Facts
According to the learned Judge, the appellants were entitled to their half share in the items of property described in Schedule A excluding items 63, 64, 65, 86 and 151 and items in paragraph 14(d) of the written statement of respondent 1 as well as items of property described in Schedules B and C. This decree was passed on November 22, 1948.4.	Facts
The said decree was challenged by respondent 1 by his appeal before the Madras High Court.	Facts
He urged that the trial Courts finding as to the status of the family was erroneous, and he pleaded that in any case the appellants were not entitled to any share in the properties at Jonnagiri, items 4 to 61, as well as the properties acquired under Ex. B32.	Facts
The first argument was rejected by the High Court, but the second was upheld.	Facts
In the result the decree passed by the trial Court was confirmed except in regard to the said two categories of properties.	Facts
It is this appellate decree which is challenged before us by the learned AttorneyGeneral on behalf of the appellants.5.	Facts
In order to appreciate the contentions raised before us it would be necessary to recapitulate briefly the findings concurrently recorded by the courts below in respect of the plea of partition set up by respondent 1.	None
These findings afford a background in the light of which the pleas raised before us would have to be considered.	None
It appears that respondent 1 relied on several documents in support of his plea that there was a partition effected by Ramappa in 1929.	None
The trial Court repelled this argument and observed that from 1937 respondent began to do mischief.	None
The transfer of patta in 1937 on which respondent 1 relied was entirely his work and the appellants mother Neelamma had not been consulted and had given no consent to it.	None
In the opinion of the trial Court respondent 1 though his agents whom he examined as witnesses in the suit (D. Ws. 2 and 14) managed the family lands, arranged to pay cist for them and manipulated entries in the revenue record purporting to show that Neelamma had paid the said cist as pattadar.	None
Neelamma was an illiterate and Gosha woman it appeared that a certain amount of coercion had been practised on her as well as deception in persuading on her to execute the original of Ex.	None
B10 which contained the recital that the house there described had fallen to the share of Neelammas husband at a prior partition.	None
The trial Court was satisfied that the said recital had been fraudulently made and the document had not been read to Neelamma at all.	None
The demeanour of respondent 1 in the witness box was also criticised by the trial Judge when he observed that he did not impress the trial Judge as a truthful witness, and in his opinion he was powerful and influential man in the village who was able to do a number of things as he wished and so it was not surprising that he was able to get a number of witnesses to speak to separate enjoyment of a few items of land by the appellants mother.6.	None
When the question of status of the family was reagitated before the High Court it felt no hesitation in confirming the conclusion of the trial Court in regard to the general conduct of respondent 1, the documents brought into existence by him, and the unfair manner in which he had dealt with the appellants mother.	None
For the reasons set out by the High Court in its judgment and also for the various reasons put forward by the learned District Judge in his exhaustive judgment the High Court agreed with the learned Judge that the alleged partition of 1929 had not been proved.	None
Thus the dispute between the parties has to be considered on the basis that until the date of the institution of the suit the family was an undivided Hindu family with respondent 1 as its manager.7.	Facts
The first point which has been raised before us by the learned AttorneyGeneral relates to items 4 to 61 at Jonnagiri.	None
These properties originally belonged to Karnam Channappa.	Arguments of Petitioner
He died in 1904, and in due course the said property devolved upon his widow Bassamma who died in 1920.	Arguments of Petitioner
Bassamma left behind her three daughters Chanamma, Nagamma and Veeramma.	Arguments of Petitioner
Channamma married Ramappa, and as we have already indicated the couple had four sons including the appellants father Bandappa and the first respondent Mallappa.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is common ground that the properties at Jongagiri had been obtained by Channamma by succession from her father and were held by her as a limited owner.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants case was that after Channamma obtained these properties by succession she allowed the said properties to be thrown into the common stock of other properties belonging to her husbands family, and so by virtue of blending her properties acquired the character of the properties belonging to her husbands family in their words, the appellants claim in respect of this property is based on the principle of blending or throwing into the common stock which is recognised by Hindu law.	Arguments of Petitioner
The trial Court relied on some transactions adduced by the appellants and upheld the plea that Channammas properties had become joint family properties in which the appellants had a half share.	None
The High Court has reversed this finding, and it has held that the transaction on which the appellants relied do not prove blending as now to Hindu law.	None
That is why the appellants claim to these properties has been rejected by the Hindu Court.8.	None
Before considering the appellants case in regard to these properties it is necessary to enquire whether the doctrine of blending can be invoked in such a case.	None
Is this doctrine based on any Sanskrit Text of Hindu Law ?	None
According to the decision of the Privy Council in Shiba Prasad Singh v. Prayag Kumari Debi, 59 Ind App 331 (AIR 1932 PC 216 )	None
this doctrine is based on the text of Yagnavalkya and the commentary of Mitakshara the text of Yagnavalkya reads thus In cases where the common stock undergoes an increase, an equal division is obtained.	None
In his commentary on this text Vijnyaneshwara has observed as follows among unseparated brothers, if the common stock be improved or augmented by any one of them through agriculture, commerce or similar means, an equal distribution nevertheless takes place and a double share is not allotted to the acquirer.	None
Sir Dinsha Mulla, who delivered the judgment of the Privy Council in the case of Shiba Prasad Singh, 59 Ind App 331 (AIR 1932 PC 216 ) has observed that the words of Yagnavalkya mean that if a member of a joint family augments joint property, whatever may be the made of augmentation, the property which goes to augment the joint family property becomes part of the joint family property, and he is entitled on a partition to an equal share with the other members of the family, and not to a double share, as in some other cases dealt with in the preceding verses.	None
This is the placitum on which the whole doctrine of merger of estate by the blending of income is founded (p. 349) (of Ind App) (p. 224 of AIR).	None
It would thus be seen that according to this decision the doctrine of blending or throwing into the common stock is based on the text just quoted Ch I, Sect. 4, 30.Mitakshara, ch.	None
I, sect.	None
4, pl. 319.	None
With very great respect, however, the text of Yagnavalkya and the comments made by Vijnyaneshwara on it do not appears to have any relation to the doctrine of blending as it has been judicially evolved.	None
The context of the decision both in the text of Yagnavalkya and in the commentary clearly shows that what is being discussed is the acquisition of property by a coparcener with the use of the family stock in other words, taking the benefit of the family stock and making its use if a coparcener through trade, agricultural or any other means augments the initial or original family stock, the augmentation thus made is treated as forming part of the original stock and an accertion to it, and in this augmentation the acquirer is not given any extra share for his special exertions.	None
This position is clarified by the comments made by Sulpani.	None
Says Sulpani that an equal division is here specifically ordained, for in a partnership with a common stock, the difference in the gains of each individual member is not to be taken into account at the time of partition.	None
Vijyaneshwara observes that this text is intended to be an exception to the text of Vasishtha which allows two shares to the acquirer and which is cited in the Mayukha.	None
It would thus be clear that the relevant text and the commentary are not dealing with a case where the separate property of a coparcener independently acquired by him is thrown into the common stock with the deliberate intention of extinguishing its separate character and impressing upon it the character of the joint family property.	Reasoning
The subject matter of the discussion is addition to the common stock made by the efforts of a coparancer with the assistance of the common stock itself.	Reasoning
Therefore, in our opinion, the said text cannot be treated as the basis for the doctrine of blending as it has been judicially evolved.	Reasoning
The Vyavahara Mayukha, Pt. I by Vishvanath Narayan	None
Mandlik, p. 215.10.	None
It is, we think, unnecessary to investigate whether any other text can be treated as the foundation of the said doctrine since the said doctrine has been recognised in several decisions and has now become a part of Hindu Law.	Reasoning
In Rajanikanta Pal v. Jagmohan Pal, 50 Ind App 173 (AIR 1923 PC 57 ) the Privy Council) held that where a member of a joint family blends his self acquired property with property of the joint family, either by bringing his self acquired property into a joint family account, or by bringing joint family property into his separate account, the effect is that all the property so blended becomes a joint family property.11.	None
The question which falls for our decision is Does this principle apply in regard to a property held by a Hindu female as a limited owner ?	Issue
In our opinion, it is difficult to answer this question in favour of the appellants.	None
The rule of blending postulates that a coparcener who is interested in the coparcenary property and who owns separate property of his own may by deliberate and intentional conduct treat his separate property as forming part of the coparcenary property.	Reasoning
If it appears that property which is separately acquired has been deliberately and voluntarily thrown by the owner into the joint stock with the clear intention of abandoning his claim on the said property and with the object of assimilating it to the joint family property, then the said property becomes a part of the joint family estate in other words, the separate property of a coparcener loses its separate character by reason of a coparancer of the owners conduct and get thrown into the common stock of which it becomes a part.	Reasoning
This doctrine, therefore, inevitably postulates that the owner of the separate property is a coparcener who has an interest in the coparcener property and desires to blend his separate property with the coparcenery property.	Reasoning
There can be no doubt that the conduct on which a plea of blending is based must clearly and unequivocally show the intention of the owner of the separate property to convert his property into an item of joint family property.	Reasoning
A mere intention of benefit the members of the family by allowing them the use of the income coming from the said property may not necessarily be enough to justify an inference of blending but the basis of the doctrine is the existence of coparcenery and coparcenery property as well as the existence of the separate property of a coparcener.	Reasoning
How this doctrine can be applied to the case of a Hindu female who has acquired immovable property form her father as a limited owner it is difficult to understand.	Reasoning
Such a Hindu female is not a coparcener and as such has no interest in coparcenery property.	Reasoning
She holds the property as a limited owner, and on her death the property has to devolve, on the next reversioner.	Reasoning
Under Hindu Law it is open to a limited owner like a Hindu female succeeding to her mothers estate as in Madras or a Hindu widow succeeding to her husbands estate, to effect herself and accelerate the revision by surrender but, as is well known, surrender has to be effected according to the rules recognised in that behalf.	Reasoning
A Hindu female owning a limited estate cannot circumvent the rules of surrender and allow the members of her husbands family to treat her limited estate as part of the joint property belonging to the said family.	Reasoning
On first principles such a result would be inconsistent with the basic notion of blending and the basic character of a limited owners title to the property held by her.	Reasoning
This aspect of the matter has apparently not been argued before the Courts below and has not been considered by them.	Reasoning
Thus, if the doctrine of blending cannot be invoked in regard to the property held by Channamma, the appellants claim in respect of the said property can and must be rejected on this preliminary ground alone.12.	Reasoning
However, we will briefly indicate the nature of the evidence on which the plea of blending was sought to be supported.	Reasoning
It appears that in 1921 a deed of maintenance was executed in favour of Gurushantappas widow Parvathamma by the three surviving brothers of Guruchantappa.	Reasoning
This deed was attested by their father Kari Ramappa.	Reasoning
It is clear that this deed includes some of the lands which Channamma had acquired by succession to her father (Ex. A10).	Reasoning
Subsequently, on July 5, 1923, some additional properties belonging to Channamma were charged to the said maintenance (Ex. A11).	Reasoning
It also appears that pattas in respect of the same lands belonging to Channamma were obtained in the names of the members of the family and consequently, the said pattas were shown in the relevant revenue papers.	Reasoning
Broadly stated, that is the nature of the evidence on which the plea of blending rests.	Reasoning
It is obvious that even if the doctrine of blending were applicable it would be impossible to hold that the transactions on which it is sought to be supported can lead to the reference that Channamma did any act from which her deliberate intention to give up her title over the properties, in favour of the members of her husbands family can be inferred.	Reasoning
It is not difficult to imagine Channammas position in the family.	Reasoning
If her husband and her sons dealt with her property as they thought fit to do Channamma may not know about it, and even if she knew about it, may not think it necessary to object because she would not be averse to giving some income from her property to her sons or to her widowed daughterinlaw.	None
As we have already pointed out, the conduct of the owner on which the plea of merger can be invoked must be clear and unequivocal, and the evidence about it must be of such a strong character as to justify an inference that the owner wanted to extinguish his title over the property and impress upon it the character of the joint family property.	None
Besides, as we will later point out, Channamma executed a deed of surrender in 1938, and the said document is wholly inconsistent with the plea that she intended to give up her title to the property in favour of her husbands joint family.	Reasoning
However, this discussion is purely academic since we have already held that the principle of blending cannot be invoked in respect of the limited estate held by Channamma.	Reasoning
Therefore, we must hold that the High Court was right in rejecting the appellants claim in respect of the properties in Jonnagiri.13.	Reasoning
That takes us to the properties in Schedule C in respect of which the trial Court had decreed the appellants claim and the High Court has rejected it.	None
This property has been obtained by respondent 1 as a result of the decree passed in O. S. No. 5 of 1940.	None
The property originally belonged to Virupakshappa, and in O. S. No. 5 of 1940 respondents 2 and 1 claimed a declaration against the two widows of Virupakshappa their daughter and certain alienees.	None
The declaration claimed was that the wills of Virupakshappa therein specified were invalid and inoperative and that the respondents had reversionary right to Virukashappas estate after the lifetime of his widows and daughter.	None
A further declaration was also claimed that alienations and gifts specified in the plaint were invalid beyond the lifetime of the widows and the daughter of Virupakshappa.	None
This suit ended in a compromise decree, and it is common ground that the properties in Schedule C came to the share of respondent 1 by this compromise decree.	None
The question which has been argued before us in respect of these properties is whether or not the appellants are entitled to a share in these properties.	None
The appellants contend that respondent 1 had joined respondent 2 in the said suit as representing their undivided family and the properties acquired by him under the compromise decree passed in the said suit has been allotted to him as representing the whole of the family.	None
On the other hand, respondent 1 contends that he joined respondent 2 in his individual character and the decree must ensure for his individual benefit.14.	Arguments of Respondent
It is clear that at the time when the said suit was filed respondent 2 was a presumptive reversioner and not respondent 1	Reasoning
but it appears that respondent 2 wanted the help of respondent 1 to fight the litigation, and both of them joined in bringing the said suit.	Reasoning
It is common ground that respondent 2 asked Neelamma whether she would like to join the litigation.	Reasoning
Respondent 2 has stated in his evidence that Neelamma, was not willing to join the said litigation and respondent 1 has supported this version.	Reasoning
The High Court thought that the evidence of Neelamma was also consistent with the story set up by respondent 1.	Reasoning
That is one of the main reasons why the High Court held that the decree passed in the said suit did not ensure for the benefit of the family.	Reasoning
In assuming that Neelamma supported the version of respondent 1 the High Court has obviously misread her evidence.	Reasoning
This is what Neelamma has stated in her evidence Defendants 1 and 2 came to me at the time of filing their suits and said that the expenses are likely to be heavy and that minors properties would not be wasted.	Reasoning
I said I had no objection and gave my consent.	Reasoning
The High Court has read her evidence to mean that she was not prepared to waste the properties of her minor sons and so she refused to join the adventure, and in doing so it thought that the statement of respondent 2 was that the minors properties should not be wasted, whereas according to the witness the said statement was that the minors properties would not be wasted.	Reasoning
It would be noticed that it makes substantial difference whether the words used were would not or should not.	Reasoning
We have no doubt that on the evidence as it stands the inference is wholly unjustified that Neelamma refused to join respondents 1 and 2.	Reasoning
Besides, as we have already pointed out, the evidence of respondents 1 and 2 has been disbelieved by both the Courts, and in fact the conduct of respondent 1 whereby he wanted a defeat the claims of his nephews has been very strongly criticised by both the Courts.	Reasoning
Therefore, we feel no hesitation in holding that the trial Court was right in coming to the conclusion that respondents 1 and 2 consulted Neelamma and with her consent the suit was filed and was intended to be fought by the two respondents not for themselves individually but with the knowledge that respondent 1 represented the undivided family of which he was the manager.	Reasoning
If that be so, then it must follow that the decree which was passed in favour of respondent 1 was not for his personal benefit but for the benefit of the whole family.15.	Reasoning
In this connection it is necessary to bear in mind that respondent 1 has not shown by any reliable evidence that the expenses for the said litigation were borne by him out of his pocket.	Reasoning
It is true that both the courts have found that respondent 1 purchased certain properties for Rs. 600/ in 1925 (Ex. B4).We do not know what the income of the said properties was obviously it could not be of any significant order but in out opinion there is no doubt that where a manager claims that any immovable property has been acquired by him with his own separate funds and not with the help of the joint family funds of which he was in possession and charge, it is for him to prove by clear and satisfactory evidence his plea that the purchase money proceeded from his separate fund.	Reasoning
The onus, of proof must in such a case be placed on the manager and not on his coparceners.	Reasoning
But, apart from the question of onus, the evidence given by respondent 1 in this case has been disbelieved, and in the absence of any satisfactory material to show that respondent 1 had any means of his own it would be idle to contend that the expenses incurred for the litigation in question were not borne by the joint family income.	Reasoning
Therefore, apart from the fact that Neelamma was consulted and agreed to joint the adventure on behalf of her sons, it is clear that the expenses for the litigation were borne by the whole family from its own joint funds.	Reasoning
This fact also shows that the property acquired by respondent 1 under the compromise decree was acquired by him as representing the family of which he was the manager.	Reasoning
The result is that the view taken by the High Court in respect of the properties in Schedule C must be reversed and that of the trial Court restored.16.	Reasoning
That leaves a minor point about three items of property, Serial Nos. 63, 64 and 65, in Schedule A.	Reasoning
These items of property form part of Jonnagiri property and we have already held that the appellants cannot make any claim to the whole of this property.	Reasoning
It appears that though the trail judge passed a decree in favour of the appellants in respect of Serial Nos. 4 to 61 in Schedule A, he did not recognise the appellants share in the three serial numbers in question because he held that they were not part of the joint family property but belonged exclusively to respondent 1.	Reasoning
It also appears that these properties originally belonged to the joint family of the parties but they were sold by Kari Ramappa and his two brothers to Channappa as long ago as 1898.	Reasoning
That is how they formed part of Channappas estate.	Reasoning
Both the courts have found that the sale deed in question was a real and genuine transaction, and they have rejected the appellants case to the contrary.	Reasoning
Respondent 1 claims these items under a deed of surrender executed in his favour by Channamma (Ex. B3) on December 5, 1938.	Reasoning
This document is accepted as genuine by both the courts and it is not disputed that the surrender effected by it is valid under Hindu law.	Reasoning
Indeed this document is wholly inconsistent with the appellants case that Channamma wanted to convert her separate properties into properties of the joint family of her husband.	Reasoning
Therefore, there is no substance in the appellants argument that they should be given a share in these three items of property.17.	Reasoning
The result is the appeal is partly allowed and the decree passed by the High Court is modified by giving the appellants their half share in the properties described in Schedule C.	Decision
The rest of the decree passed by the High Court is confirmed.	Decision
In the circumstances of this case the parties should bear their own costs.18.	Decision
Appeal partly allowed.	Decision
