 Vaidialingam, J. 1.	None
This appeal, by special leave, granted by this Court, is directed against the order, dated October 13, 1966, passed by the Andhra Pradesh High Court, dismissing Writ Petition No. 853 of 1966, filed by the appellant, under Art.	None
226 of the Constitution.	None
2.	None
The appellant filed the said writ petition under the following circumstances.	Facts
The appellant was the ViceChancellor of the Osmania University, having been appointed, as such, by order, dated April 30, 1964, passed by the Governor of Andhra Pradesh, in his capacity as Chancellor of the said University.	Facts
The appointment of the appellant, under the said order, as ViceChancellor, there is not controversy, was for a term of five years from the date of taking charge and the appointment itself was made under subs.	Facts
(1) of S. 12 of the Osmania University Act, 1959 (Andhra Pradesh Act No. IX of 1959).	Facts
There is, again, no controversy that the appellant took charge as ViceChancellor, in terms of the said order, on April 30, 1964 and, as such, he became entitled to hold office for the full period of five years, which will expire at the end of April 1969.	Facts
3.	None
The Osmania University was established in 1918 and the administration of the University was then governed by a Charter of His Exalted Highness, the Nizam of Hyderabad, promulgated in 1947.	Facts
With effect from November 1, 1956, the State of Hyderabad ceased to exist, and the Telengana region of that State became part of Andhra Pradesh.	Facts
In 1959, the Andhra Pradesh Legislature passed the Osmania University Act, 1959, earlier referred to.	Facts
That Act itself was one to amend and consolidate the law relating to the Osmania University.	Facts
It is only necessary to note, at this stage, that under S. 12 (1) of the said Act, it was provided that the ViceChancellor shall be appointed by the Chancellor from a panel of not less than three persons selected by a Committee, as constituted under subs.	Facts
(2) but, if the Chancellor does not approve any of the persons so selected, he may call for a fresh panel from the Committee.	Facts
Section 13, again, provided for the term of office, salary and allowances, etc., of the ViceChancellor.	Facts
Under subs (1), the term of officer of the ViceChancellor was fixed for a term of five years and there was also a further provision to the effect that he shall be eligible for reappointment.	Facts
4.	None
By S. 51 of the said Act, the Osmania University Revised Charter of 1947 was repealed but, nevertheless, it was provided that the person holding office immediately before the commencement of the Act as ViceChancellor, was to be the ViceChancellor on such commencement of the Act, and was to continue to hold the said office, in circumstances mentioned therein.	Facts
5.	None
There is, again, no controversy that the appellant, who was already the ViceChancellor of the Osmania University form 1957, was again appointed in 1959, as ViceChancellor for a period of five years under this Act and he was similarly appointed for a further term of five years, on April 13, 1964, as ViceChancellor, as mentioned earlier.	Facts
During the middle of 1965, certain amendments were sought to be introduced in the Act by providing for removal of the ViceChancellor, by the Chancellor, form office under certain circumstances.	Facts
There was also a proposal to reduce the term of office of the ViceChancellor from 5 years to 3 years, from the date of his appointment, and for provisions being made enabling the Government to give directions to the University relating to matter of policy to be followed by it.	Facts
6.	None
The amendment sought to be introduced in the Act, appear to have come in for considerable criticism from several quarters, and these have been elaborately dealt with in the order under attack.	Facts
According to the appellant, he was one of those who very strenuously opposed the proposed amendments on the ground that the autonomy of the University was sought to be interfered with by the Government.	Facts
According to the appellant, again, the various criticisms made by him and others were taken note of by the InterUniversity Board, by the Education Minister of the Union and others.	Facts
It is the further case of the appellant that it was felt by the Government of Andhra Pradesh that he was responsible for the agitation that was being made, against the proposed amendments.	Facts
But, ultimately, the Andhra Pradesh Legislature passed the Osmania University (Amendment) Act, 1966 (Act II of 1966), amending the Osmania University Act of 1959 in certain particulars.	Facts
The said amendments are to the effect that the ViceChancellor shall not be removed from office, except as provided for in Section 12 (2) of the Amended Act.	None
The term of office was also fixed at 3 years under the amended S. 13.	Facts
Another provision relating to the power of Government to give instructions to the University was also introduced, as S. 7A but the appellant continued as ViceChancellor.	Facts
7.	None
The Osmania University Act, was again amended by the Osmania University (Second Amendment) Act, 1966 (Act XI of 1966).	Facts
Under this amendment.	Facts
S. 13A was enacted.	Facts
In brief, that section was to the effect that the person holding the office of the ViceChancellor, immediately before the commencement of the amending Act of 1966, was to hold office only until a new ViceChancellor was appointed under subs.	Facts
(1) of S. 12 and it also provided that such appointment shall be made within 90 days after such commencement.	Facts
There was a further provision that on the appointment of such new ViceChancellor, and on his entering upon his office, the person holding the office of ViceChancellor immediately before such appointment, shall cease to hold that office.	Facts
Section 7A, which had been introduced by Act II of 1966, was deleted.	Facts
Section 33A was enacted, making special provision as to the reconstitution of the Senate Syndicate, Academic Council and Finance Committee of the University.	Facts
8.	None
The appellant filed Writ Petition No. 853 of 1966, in the High Court, praying for the issue of a writ or order declaring S. 5 of the Osmania University (Second Amendment) Act, 1966, which introduced S. 13A in the original Act, as unconstitutional and void.	Facts
In that writ petition, he challenged the validity of the new Section, S. 13A, on several grounds.	Facts
In brief, his plea was that by virtue of his appointment as ViceChancellor for 5 years on April 30, 1964, he had acquired a vested right to hold that office for the full term and that such a vested right could not be taken away during the currency of the period, by any legislative enactment.	Facts
The legislature had no competence to enact the said provision inasmuch as S. 13A could not be treated as legislation in respect of University education.	Facts
The appellant had also pleaded that the provision virtually amounted to removal of the appellant from his office without giving him any opportunity to show cause against such removal.	Facts
According to the appellant, even assuming the Legislature was competent to enact the provision in question, nevertheless, S. 13A is unconstitutional and void, inasmuch as it offends Art.	Facts
14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
9.	None
We do not think it necessary to advert, elaborately, to the various other grounds of attack levelled against the constitutional validity of the provision in question, which have, no doubt, been dealt with by the High Court, because, for the purpose of disposing of this appeal, in our opinion, it is enough to refer to the grounds of attack, taken by the appellant regarding the constitutionality of S. 13A, based upon Art.	None
14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
10.	None
So far as this aspect is concerned according to the appellant, S. 9 of Act II of 1966 amended the Act of 1959 by incorporating new subss.	None
(1) and (2) in S. 12.	None
Under subs.	None
(1) of S. 12, the ViceChancellor is to be appointed by the Chancellor.	None
Under subs.	None
(2), the ViceChancellor shall not be removed from his office except by an order of the Chancellor passed on the ground of misbehaviour or incapacity and it also provided for such an order being passed only after due enquiry by a person who is or has been a Judge of a High Court or the Supreme Court, as may be appointed by the Chancellor, and the ViceChancellor being given an opportunity of making his representation against the removal.	None
Therefore, in view of these provisions, the ViceChancellor could not be removed by the Chancellor without any cause, without reason, without enquiry and without an opportunity being given to him to show cause against removal.	None
This provision applied to the appellant, who was in office, on the date of the passing of Act II of 1966, as well as Act XI of 1966.	None
Nevertheless, S. 5 of Act XI of 1966 incorporated S. 13A in the principal Act.	None
Under that section, not only has power been conferred on the Chancellor, but also a duty imposed, so to say, on him, to remove the appellant, who was the ViceChancellor, without any reason or justification or even giving an opportunity to him to show cause against such removal.	None
No enquiry, before ordering such removal, is contemplated under this section.	None
Further, while a ViceChancellor, who is appointed after the passing of Act XI of 1966 cannot be removed from office, except in accordance with the provisions of subs.	None
(2) of S. 12, the appellant, who was already in office, could be arbitrarily and illegally removed under Section 13A of the Act.	None
There is no provision, again, similar to S. 13A, applicable to a ViceChancellor, appointed after the coming into force of the amending Act.	None
Therefore, according to the appellant, the provisions contained in S. 13A are clearly directed only against him, as he was the person holding office, prior to the amending Act, and, therefore, it is a clear case of hostile discrimination.	None
11.	None
Further, according to the appellant, persons appointed as ViceChancellors, constitute a group and must be considered as persons similarly situated and that must be treated alike whereas, by virtue of S. 13A, a differentiation is made between the appellant, who was a ViceChancellor on the date of the commencement of the Amending Act and other persons who are to be appointed as ViceChancellors thereafter.	None
This differentiation, according to the appellant, is again without any basis nor has such a classification, any reasonable relation to the main object of the legislation.	None
12.	None
The appellant also relied on S. 33A, introduced by S. 6 of Act XI of 1966, relating to the reconstitution of the Senate, Syndicate, Academic Council and the Finance Committee and pleaded that whereas those academic bodies or authorities were allowed to continue without any timelimit and to function until they were reconstituted, regarding the ViceChancellor alone, a period of 90 days had been fixed, under the Amending Act, within which the Chancellor as bound to appoint another ViceChancellor.	None
This, again, is a clear proof of discrimination against the appellant.	None
13.	None
The respondents controverted the stand taken on behalf of the appellant.	None
Apart from supporting the competency of the Legislature to enact measure, in question they urge that Art.	None
14 of the Constitution has no application at all.	None
According to the respondents, inasmuch as the term of office of the ViceChancellor had been reduced to five (three?) years, as per Act II of 1966, it was thought fit by the Legislature to provide for the termination of the office of the ViceChancellor, who was holding that post, the commencement of Act XI of 1966 as also for the appointment of a new Vice Chancellor.	None
It was, under those circumstances, that S. 13A was incorporated in the Act of 1959, by S. 5 of Act XI of 1966.	None
They also referred to similar provisions, which were incorporated in the two enactments relating to the two other Universities in the State, viz., the Andhra University and Sri Venkateswara University.	Arguments of Respondent
14.	None
The respondents further pleaded that Act II of 1966 placed the ViceChancellor, who was already appointed and who was functioning prior to that Act, in the first category, as a class apart, from the ViceChancellors who were to be subsequently appointed and who were to function, after the passing of the said Amending Act, in the second category, both in the matter of the mode of appointment, as well as the term of appointment.	Arguments of Respondent
The ViceChancellor, viz., the appellant who was in office, on the date of the passing of Act XI of 1966, according to the respondents, therefore, fell into a class all by himself and, as such, came under a third category and the legislature thought fit to take into account the special features relating to him and, therefore, made separate provisions regarding the termination of his office.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, a suitable provision was made, by enacting S. 13A, in respect of the existing ViceChancellor, who was treated as a class, by himself.	Arguments of Respondent
15.	None
The respondents also claimed that the Legislature was entitled to treat the ViceChancellor, who was then in office, as a class by himself and make suitable provisions with regard to the termination of his office, and, therefore, a legislation made for that purpose, and on that basis, was constitutionally valid.	None
The charge of hostility towards the appellant, or any attempt to effect discrimination, was stoutly denied by the respondents.	None
The respondents, therefore, urged that the classification of the appellant, as a separate class, was proper and such a classification had a reasonable nexus, with the object of the amending legislation.	None
16.	None
The respondents further pleaded that the curtailment of the term of office of an existing ViceChancellor, by a statute, enacted by a competent Legislature, does not amount to removal of the ViceChancellor for sufficient and proved cause.	None
The respondents also urged that academic bodies or authorities like the Senate, Syndicate and the Academic Council are not similarly situated like the ViceChancellor, either in the matter of appointment or constitution, or in exercising functions under the statute and, therefore, the appellant, according to them, was not entitled to place any reliance on S. 33A, introduced by S. 7 of Act XI of 1966.	None
For all these reasons, they urged that Art.	None
14 of the Constitution was not violated by the Legislature in enacting S. 13A. 17.	None
Before we refer to the findings recorded by the learned Judges of the High Court, this will be a convenient stage to refer to the material provisions of the statutes, concerned.	None
We have already mentioned that the appellant was functioning as the ViceChancellor of the Osmania University, even from 1957, i.e., even before the Osmania University Act, 1959, was passed.	Facts
We have also indicated that the administration of the University was then governed by a Charter promulgated in 1947.	None
The Osmania University Act, 1959 (Act IX of 1959), (hereinafter called the Act), was passed in 1959 and published in the State Gazette on February 2, 1959.	None
Section 3 of the Act provided that the University, established by the Revised Charter promulgated by H.E.H. the Nizam of Hyderabad, on December 8, 1947, and functioning at Hyderabad immediately before the commencement of the Act, be reconstituted and declared to be a University by the name of Osmania University.	None
The said section also provided that the University would be a residential, teaching and affiliating University consisting of a Chancellor, a ProChancellor, a ViceChancellor, a Senate, a Syndicate and an Academic Council.	None
18.	None
Section l2 (1) provided for the appointment of the ViceChancellor, by the Chancellor, from a panel of not less than three persons selected by a committee, as constituted under subs.	Facts
(2) thereof.	None
But, if the Chancellor did not approve any of the persons so selected he could call for a fresh panel from the committee.	Facts
Subsection (2) provided for the constitution of the committee.	None
19.	None
Section 13 provided for the term of office, salary, allowances, etc., of the ViceChancellor.	Facts
Under subs.	None
(1), the ViceChancellor was to hold office for a term of 5 years and he was eligible for reappointment.	None
There was a proviso to the effect that the ViceChancellor shall continue to hold office after the expiry of his term of appointment, for a period not exceeding six months, or until his successor is appointed and enters upon his office, whichever is earlier.	None
Subsection (6) provided for the filling up of vacancy, in the post of the ViceChancellor, when it fell permanently vacant and a ViceChancellor so appointed as per subss.	None
(1) and (2) of S. 12, was to hold office for a full term of 5 years.	None
20. Section 51 (1) repealed the Osmania University Revised Charter, 1947 but subs.	None
(2) provided that notwithstanding such repeal, the person holding office immediately before the commencement of the Act, as ViceChancellor, shall, on such commencement, be the ViceChancellor of the University and he was entitled to hold office until a ViceChancellor is appointed in accordance with the Act.	None
21.	None
It will be noticed by the above reference to the material provisions of the Act that there was no provision for removal of a ViceChancellor and that the appointment of a ViceChancellor was to be by the Chancellor, as provided for in S. 12.	None
The term of office of the ViceChancellor was 5 years and he was eligible for reappointment.	None
The appellant, who was already a ViceChancellor, functioning under the Charter of 1947, was entitled to continue, and did continue, as the ViceChancellor, by virtue of S. 51 of the Act.	None
He was also, already mentioned, originally appointed as ViceChancellor for a period of 5 years under the Act, in 1959.	None
22.	None
The Act was amended in certain particulars by the Osmania University (Amendment) Act, 1966 (Act II of 1966) (hereinafter called the First Amendment Act).	Facts
The First Amendment Act received the assent of the Governor on January 29, 1966.	None
Section 6 of the First Amendment Act, introduced S. 7A, which we set out 7A. Instruction by the Government.	None
The Government may, after consultation with the University, give to the University, instructions relating to matters of major educational policy such as pattern of University education, medium of instruction and establishment of postgraduate centres, to be followed by it.	None
2.	None
In the exercise of its powers and performance of its functions under this Act, the University shall comply with the instructions issued under subs.	None
(l).	None
Similarly, S. 9 incorporated new subss.	None
(1) and (2) in S. 12 of the Act, as follows12.	None
(1) The ViceChancellor shall be appointed by the Chancellor, (2) The ViceChancellor shall not be removed from his office except by an order of the Chancellor passed on the ground of misbehaviour or incapacity and after due inquiry by such person who is or has been a Judge of a High Court or the Supreme Court as may be appointed by the Chancellor, in which the ViceChancellor shall have an opportunity of making his representation against such removal.	None
Section 10, while effecting certain other amendments to S. 13 of the Act, incorporated a new subs.	None
(1), as follows13.	None
(1) Subject to the provisions of subs.	None
(2) of S. 12, the ViceChancellor shall hold office for a term of three years from the date of his appointment and shall be eligible for reappointment to that office for another term of three years only Provided that the ViceChancellor shall continue to hold office after the expiry of his term of appointment for a period not exceeding six months or until his success is appointed and enters upon his office, whichever is earlier.	None
23.	None
It was this Amendment Act, when it was in the Bill stags that appears to have been severely criticised by various authorities on the ground that the autonomy of the University was sought to be interfered with by the Government.	None
In that connection, the appellant also appears to have made several statements criticising the provisions sought to be incorporated in the Act.	None
It is also on record that counterstatements were made on behalf of the Government meeting these criticisms regarding the proposed amendments.	None
They have been dealt with by the High Court rather elaborately but, we do not propose to go into those matters, for the purpose of this appeal.	None
24.	None
By virtue of the amendments effected and referred to above, it will be seen that the term of office of the Vice Chancellor was reduced from 5 years to 3 years.	None
The manner of appointment of the ViceChancellor has also been changed and a provision is contained for removal of the ViceChancellor from his office, but that can be done only in accordance with the provisions contained in S. 12 (2) of the Act.	None
Section 7A gives power to the Government to give instructions to the University relating to matters of major educational policy and it is made obligatory on the University to comply with such instructions issued by the Government.	None
25.	Arguments of Petitioner
As we have already stated, the appellant was again appointed as ViceChancellor for a period of 5 years on April 30, 1964 and he was continuing in office when the First Amendment Act was passed.	None
One of the claims that is made by the appellant in these proceedings, is that he is entitled to the protection conferred by S. 12 (2) of the Act referred to above.	None
There does not appear to be any controversy that any appointment of a ViceChancellor was made, after the passing of the First Amendment Act.	None
26.	None
The Act was further amended by the Osmania University (Second Amendment) Act, 1966 (Act XI of 1966) (to be referred to as the Second Amendment Act).	Facts
It received the assent of the Governor on May 16, 1966.	None
Section 2 of the Second Amendment Act, omitted S. 7A of the Act.	None
Section 5 of the Second Amendment Act, which introduced new S. 13A in the Act, and which provision is the subject of attack in these proceedings, is as follows 13A. Special provision as to the appointment of a new ViceChancellor.	None
Notwithstanding anything in this Act, the person holding the office of the ViceChancellor immediately before the commencement of the Osmania University (Second Amendment) Act, 1966, shall continue to hold that office only until a new ViceChancellor is appointed by the Chancellor under subs.	None
(1) of S. 12 and enters upon his office and such appointment shall be made within ninety days after such commencement.	Facts
On the appointment of such new ViceChancellor and on his entering upon his office, the person holding the office of the ViceChancellor immediately before such appointment shall cease to hold that office.	Facts
Again, S. 6 of the Second Amendment Act incorporated S. 33A in the Act, which is as follows33A. Special provisions as to the reconstitution of the Senate, Syndicate, Academic Council and Finance Committee.	None
Notwithstanding anything in this Act, the members of the Senate, the Syndicate, the Academic Council and the Finance Committee constituted and functioning before the commencement of the Osmania University (Amendment) Act, 1966, shall continue to be such members and function only until a new Senate, Syndicate, Academic Council or Finance Committee, as the case may be, is reconstituted under this Act.	None
On the reconstitution of such new Senate, Syndicate, Academic Council or Finance Committee the members of the Senate other than the life members thereof, the members of the Syndicate, Academic Council or Finance Committee, as the case may be holding office immediately before such reconstitution, shall cease to hold that office.	None
27.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even according to the respondents S. 13A was incorporated for the purpose of terminating the service of the appellant as ViceChancellor, so as to enable the Chancellor to make a fresh appointment of a ViceChancellor.	None
We have referred to Section 33A of the Act, because the appellants case was also to the effect that with regard to the Senate, Syndicate, Academic Counci1 etc., there is no provision similar to S. 13A of the Act, though they are also similarly situated like him.	None
28.	Arguments of Petitioner
The findings of the learned Judges of the High Court may now be briefly summarised1.	None
The Andhra Pradesh Legislature was competent to enact S. 5 of the Second Amendment Act.	None
The said section does not contravene Art. 19	None
(1) (f) of the Constitution.	None
2.	None
The appellant was holding the office of the ViceChancellor when the Act came into force and continued under S. 51 (2) thereof as ViceChancellor until the Chancellor passed an order in 1959 appointing him once again under the Act.	None
3. Section 13 (1), as introduced by the First Amendment Act, is not retrospective and the right of the appellant to continue as ViceChancellor for the full term of 5 years stood unaffected and the new S. 13 (1) does not apply to him.	None
4.	None
The new S. 12 (2), as introduced by the First Amendment Act, is not applicable to the appellant.	None
5. Sections 12 (2) and 13A of the Act, do not cover the same field.	None
Section 12 (2) provides for removal by way of punishment and its operation is on a different field from that of S. 13A where the cessasion of office is due to a curtailment of the term.	None
Section 12 (2) applies only to the future ViceChancellors and S. 13A is solely applicable to the existing ViceChancellor, the appellant 29.	None
Regarding the attack on S. 13A, on the basis of Art.	None
14 of the Constitution that there is an unreasonable discrimination, the learned Judges were of the view that the said section did not suffer from any such infirmity.	None
The learned Judges held that the impugned legislation had resulted in classifying ViceChancellors under two categories (a) the appellant, as the existing ViceChancellor, falling under the first category and (b) the future ViceChancellor, to be appointed under the Act, who falls under the second category.	None
According to the High Court, the object sought to be achieved by such classification, as could be seen from the objects and reasons of the Second Amendment Act, 1966, was to give effect to the reduced term of 3 years fixed under Section 13 (1) of the Act after the First Amendment.	None
The High Court further held that the classification adopted by S. 13A, of putting the appellant, as the existing ViceChancellor, in a class by himself, its founded on an intelligible differentia, which distinguishes the appellant from future ViceChancellors, and that this differentia has a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Second Amendment Act.	None
In this connection, the learned Judges also advert to the similar provisions enacted, at about the same time, in the Andhra University Act, 1925, and the Sri Venkateswara University Act. 1954.	Arguments of Respondent
30.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court is also of the view that the Legislature must have taken into account the fact that the appellant has already put in more than 6 years of service as ViceChancellor, for treating him as a class by himself, as distinct from future ViceChancellors, who are to be appointed and, as such, have not put in any service at all.	None
The learned Judges have, no doubt, adverted to the fact that the appellant has got an eventful record of efficient service, full of recognition and appreciation, but the appellant cannot plead those circumstances when a competent legislature has passed a valid legislative measure, under which he has to lose his office.	None
31.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ultimately, on these findings, the High Court came to the conclusion that S. 5 of the Second Amendment Act, introducing S. 13A in the Act, is not vitiated by any infirmity, as alleged by the Appellant, and, finally, dismissed the appellants writ petition.	None
32.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant has again raised, no doubt, most of the contentions that were taken before the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
But the main ground of attack that has been pressed before us, by learned counsel for the appellant, is the one based upon Art. 14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
The findings recorded, and the views expressed, by the High Court are sought to be sustained by the learned Additional SolicitorGeneral, appearing for the respondents.	Reasoning
But, we do not think it necessary to go into the larger controversy that has been raised by the appellant, before the High Court, in the view that we take, that the appellant must succeed in respect of the attack levelled against the impugned provision, based upon Art.	Reasoning
14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
As to whether the criticism, made by the appellant about the proposals to amend the Act, was or was not responsible for the passing of the legislation in question does not assume much of an importance because, the simple question is whether the provision, S. 13A, as it now stands in the Act, is violative, in any manner, of Art.	Reasoning
14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the answer is yes, it is needless to state that the provision will have to be struck down.	None
Therefore, we are confining our attention only to the provisions of the Act and we will refer to any other circumstance that is brought to our notice only for the limited purpose of considering the grounds of attack based under Art.	None
14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
33.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Setalvad, the appellant is entitled to take advantage of the provisions of S. 12 (2) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the date of the passing of the First Amendment Act, the appellant was, admittedly, a ViceChancellor and he had been continuing as such.	Arguments of Petitioner
He cannot be removed from his office, except in accordance with the provisions of S. 12 (2) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
But, in view of Section 13A of the Act, introduced by the Second Amendment Act, the appellant is forced out of his office, within 90 days of the passing of the Second Amendment Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The creation of two classes of ViceChancellors, viz., of ViceChancellors appointed under the Act and the ViceChancellor who was in, office of the commencement of the Second Amendment Act, is not on any rational basis.	Arguments of Petitioner
Persons appointed as ViceChancellors, constitute a group, and the impugned provision make a differentiation between the person who is a ViceChancellor then and other persons who are to be appointed ViceChancellors thereafter, for which differentiation, there is absolutely no basis Further, even if it can be stated that there is any basis for the said classification, nevertheless, there should be a nexus or connection between the basis of the classification and the object of the legislation, which again, is lacking in this case.	Arguments of Petitioner
34.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Setalvad further urged that while the services of a ViceChancellor, appointed under the Act, could be terminated only in accordance with the provisions contained in S. 12 (2) of the Act, the appellants services could be terminated under S. 13A, without adopting the procedure laid down in S. 12 (2) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was also no provision in the Act, Mr. Setalvad pointed out, making S. 13 (2) (12 (2) ?)	Arguments of Petitioner
applicable to ViceChancellors to be appointed in future.	Arguments of Petitioner
Though the term of office for a ViceChancellor has been fixed under the Act, even after the amendments, as three years, and that may apply to all the ViceChancellors, so far as the appellant is concerned, his term has been reduced or restricted to 90 days under Section 13A of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
35.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Setalvad again urges that even assigning that it is open to the Legislature, in an appropriate case, to make provisions applicable to only one individual or a group of individuals nevertheless, it is well established, by this Court, that the classification that is effected by the statute must be a classification founded on an intelligible differentia and that differentia must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the statute.	Arguments of Petitioner
Applying these two tests 1earned counsel urges, that the impugned legislation must be considered to be violative of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
36.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Additional SolicitorGeneral has urged that the term of office of the ViceChancellor has been reduced to three years by the First Amendment Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The Legislature, in order to give effect to this provision and to enable fresh appointments to be made under the Act, has enacted S. 13A. That section has, necessarily, to apply only to persons like the appellant who are holding office at the time when these provisions came into force.	Arguments of Respondent
Such a provision, in the nature of things, cannot apply to ViceChancellors who are to be appointed in future under the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, it is wrong to state that all ViceChancellors, irrespective of the manner or made under which they are appointed, in present or in future, fall under the same category.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, the appellant has been a ViceChancellar for nearly 7 years.	Arguments of Respondent
The legislature the learned Solicitor points out, having regard to these circumstances, has chosen to treat the appellant, the ViceChancellor holding office on the date of the Second Amendment Act, as a class by himself and has differentiated him from person to be appointed ViceChancellor for the first time.	Arguments of Respondent
Such a classification, is reasonable and it has got a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Second Amendment Act, viz., bringing about uniformity in the tenure of three years of office for all ViceChancellors.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Solicitor points out further that the appellant is not entitled to the benefit of S. 12 (2) of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The Legislature was competent to enact the measure in question and the object of the Legislature was to give effect to the amended provisions as early as possible.	Arguments of Respondent
He pointed out that similar provisions were also made in two other enactments at about the same time, viz., in the Andhra University Act, 1925, and the Sri Venkateswara University Act, 1954.	Arguments of Respondent
It may be that the Legislature could have adopted another method for replacing the present ViceChancellor, but that is a matter of policy, which cannot be reviewed by the Courts, so long as the Legislature had the competence to enact the measure and the provisions, so enacted, do not suffer from any other legal infirmities.	Arguments of Respondent
37.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have given due consideration to the various contentions placed before as by Mr. Setalvad, learned counsel for the appellant and the learned Additional SolicitorGeneral on behalf of the respondents but we are not inclined to agree with the contentions of the learned Additional SolicitorGeneral.	None
38.	Arguments of Petitioner
The principles to be borne in mind when a question arises under Art 14 of the Constitution, have been laid down in several decisions, by this Court, on a number of occasions.	None
In Budhan Choudhry v. State of Bihar, 19551 SCR 1045 at p. 1049 (AIR 1955 SC 191 at p. 193), Das, J., speaking for the Court, said It is now well established that while Art 14 forbids class legislation, it does not forbid reasonable classification for the purposes of legislation.	None
In order, however, to pass the test of permissible classification two conditions must be fulfilled, namely, (i) that the classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes persons or things that are grouped together from others left out of the group and (ii) that that differentia must have national relation to the object sought to be achieved by the statute in question.	None
39.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, it will be seen that in order to accept a classification as permissible and not hit by Art.	None
14, the measures in question will have to pass the two tests laid down in the above decision.	None
The observations extracted above, have been quoted by Das, C. J., in Ram Krishna Dalmia v. Justice S. R. Tendolkar, 1959 SCR 279 at p. 295 (AIR 1958 SC 538 at p. 546).It is no doubt true, as pointed out by the learned Additional SolicitorGeneral, that a statute may direct its provisions against one individual person or thing, or against several individual persons or things.	None
But, before such a provision can be accepted as valid, the Court must be satisfied that there is a reasonable basis of classification which appears on the face of the statute itself, or is deducible from the surrounding circumstances or matters of common knowledge.	None
If no such reasonable basis of classification appears on the face of the statute, or is deducible from the surrounding circumstances, the law will have to be struck down as an instance of naked discrimination.	None
40.	Arguments of Petitioner
It should also be borne in mind that there is always a presumption in favour of the constitutionality of an enactment and the burden is upon the party who attacks the same as unconstitutional, to show that there is a clear transgression of the constitutional principles, but, as observed by Das, C. J., in Ram Krishna Dalmias case, 1959 SCR 279 at p. 297 (AIR 1958 SC 538 at p. 548),while good faith and knowledge of the existing conditions on the part of a legislature are to be presumed, if there is nothing on the face of the law or the surrounding circumstances brought to the notice of the Court on which the classification may reasonably be regarded as based, the presumption of constitutionality cannot be carried to the extent of always holding that there must be some undisclosed and unknown reasons for subjecting certain individuals or corporations to hostile or discriminating legislation.	None
41.	Arguments of Petitioner
Having due regard to the principles referred to above, we now proceed to consider as to whether the appellant has been able to establish that S. 5 of the Second Amendment Act, introducing S. 13A in the Act, is discriminatory and, as such, violative of Art.	Issue
14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
42.	None
We have already stated that the appellant was appointed under the Act, for a further term of 5 years, as ViceChancellor, on April 30, 1964, and he was continuing in office, as such, at the time when the two Amending Acts were passed and, normally, he would be entitled to continue in that post for the full term, which will expire only at the end of April 1969.	None
The First Amendment Act provided, in S. 12 of the Act, that the ViceChancellor is to be appointed by the Chancellor but S. 12 (2) specifically provided that the ViceChancellor shall not be removed from his office except by an order of the Chancellor passed on the ground of misbehaviour or incapacity and, after due inquiry by such person who is, or has been a Judge of a High Court or the Supreme Court, as may be appointed by the Chancellor.	Reasoning
It was also provided that the ViceChancellor was to have an opportunity of making his representation against such removal.	None
Prima facie, the provisions contained in subs.	None
(2) of S. 12, must also apply to the appellant, who did continue in office even after the passing of the First Amendment Act.	None
No doubt the term of office of the ViceChancellor was fixed at 3 years under S. 13 (1) of the Act.	None
But no provisions were made in the First Amendment Act regarding the termination of the tenure of office of the ViceChancellor who was then holding that post. 43.	None
There can be no controversy that S. 13A, introduced by S. 5 of the Second Amendment Act, deals only with the appellant.	None
In fact, the stand taken on behalf of the respondents in the counteraffidavit filed before the High Court, was to the effect at the Legislature had chosen to treat the ViceChancellor holding office at the time of the commencement of the Second Amendment Act, as a class by himself and with a view to enable the Chancellor to make fresh appointments, S. 13A of the Act was enacted.	None
44.	None
Therefore, it is clear that S. 13A applies only to the appellant.	Reasoning
Though, no doubt, it has been stated, on behalf of the respondents that similar provisions were incorporated, at about the same time in two other Acts, relating to two other Universities, viz., the Andhra University and the Sri Venkateswara University, and though this circumstance has also been taken into account by the learned Judges of the High Court, in our opinion, those provisions have no bearing in considering the attack levelled by the appellant on S. l3A of the Act.	Reasoning
45.	None
This is a clear case where the statute itself directs its provisions, by enacting S. 13A, against one individual, viz., the appellant and, before it can be sustained as valid, this Court must be satisfied that there is a reasonable basis for grouping the appellant as a class by himself and that such reasonable basis must appear either in the statute itself or must be deducible from other surrounding circumstances.	None
According to learned counsel for the appellant, all Vice Chancellors of the Osmania University come under one group and can be classified only as one unit and there is absolutely no justification for grouping the appellant under one class and the ViceChancellors to be appointed in future under a separate class.	Reasoning
In any event, it is also urged that the said classification has no relation or nexus to the object of the enactment.	None
46.	None
Our attention has been drawn to the Statement of Objects and Reasons to the Second Amendment Bill, the material part of which is as follows The term of office of the ViceChancellor has been reduced to three years under S. 13 (1) of the Osmania University Act as amended by S. 10 of the Osmania University (Amendment) Act, 1966.	None
Section 13A, proposed to be inserted by Cl. 5 of the Bill, enjoins that notwithstanding anything in the Act, the person holding the office of the ViceChancellor immediately before the commencement of the Osmania University (Second Amendment Act.	None
1966 shall continue to hold that office only until a new ViceChancellor is appointed by the Chancellor under S. 12 (1) as amended and enters upon his office, and such appointment shall be made within ninety days after such commencement.	None
47.	None
We are inclined to accept the contention of Mr. Setalvad, that there is no justification for the impugned legislation resulting in a classification of the ViceChancellors into two categories, viz., the appellant as the their existing ViceChancellor and the future ViceChancellor to be appointed under the Act.	None
48.	None
In our view, the ViceChancellor, who is appointed under the Act, or the ViceChancellor who was holding that post on the date of the commencement of the Second Amendment Act, form one single group or class.	None
Even assuming that the classification of these two types of persons as coming under two different groups can be made, nevertheless it is essential that such a classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes the appellant from the ViceChancellor appointed under the Act.	None
We are not able to find any such intelligible differentia on the basis of which the classification can be justified.	None
49.	None
It is also essential that the classification or differentia effected by the statute must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the statute.	None
We have gone through the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Second Amendment Bill which became law later, as well as the entire Act itself, as it now stands.	None
In the Statement of Objects and Reasons for the Second Amendment Bill, extracted above, it is seen that except stating a fact that the term of office of the ViceChancellor has been reduced to 3 years under S. 13 (1) and that S. 13A was intended to be enacted, no other policy is indicated which will justify the differentiation.	None
The term of office fixing the period of three years for the ViceChancellor, has been already effected by the First Amendment Act and, therefore, the differential principle adopted for terminating the services of the appellant by enacting S. 13A of the Act cannot be considered to be justified.	None
In other words, the differentia adopted in S. 13A and directed as against the Appellant  and the appellant alone  cannot be considered to have a rational relation to the object sought to he achieved by the Second Amendment Act.	None
50.	None
While a ViceChancellor appointed under S. 12 of the Act can be removed from office only by adopting the procedure under S. 12 (2), the services of the appellant, who was also a ViceChancellor and similarly situated, is sought to be terminated by enacting S. 13A of the Act.	Reasoning
We do not see any policy underlying the Act justifying this differential treatment accorded to the appellant.	Reasoning
The term of office of the ViceChancellors has been no doubt reduced wider the First Amendment Act and fixed for 3 years for all the ViceChancellors.	Reasoning
But, so far as the appellant is concerned, by virtue of S. 13A of the Act, he can continue to hold that office only until a new ViceChancellor is appointed by the Chancellor, and that appointment is to be made within 90 days.	Reasoning
While all other ViceChancellors, appointed under the Act, can continue to be in office for a period of three years, the appellant is literally forced out of his office, on the expiry of 90 days from the date of commencement of the Second Amendment Act.	Reasoning
There is also no provision in the statute providing for the termination of the services of the ViceChancellors, who are appointed under the Act, in the manner provided under Section 13A of the Act.	Reasoning
By S. 13A, the appellant is even denied the benefits which may be available under the proviso to subs.	Reasoning
(1) of S. 13 of the Act, which benefit is available to all other ViceChancellors.	None
51.	None
The appointment of the appellant in 1959 and, again in 1964, wider S. 12 (1) of the Act, as it stood prior to the two object amendments, by the Chancellor, must have been, no doubt, from a panel of names submitted by a committee constituted under S. 12 (2).	Reasoning
The appointment of a ViceChancellor after the passing of the First Amendment Act, is to be made exclusively by the Chancellor under S. 12 (1), as the section now stands.	Reasoning
That is a circumstance, relied on by the respondent, for differentiating the appellant as an existing ViceChancellor from a ViceChancellor to be appointed under the Act as amended.	Reasoning
Another circumstance relied on is that the appellant has been a ViceChancellor for 7 years.	Reasoning
In our opinion these are not such vital or crucial factors which will justify treating the appellant as a class by himself.	Reasoning
because the powers and duties of a ViceChancellor, either under the Act, prior to the amendment or under the Act, after amendment continue to be the same.	Reasoning
To conclude, the classification of the appellant, as a class by himself, is not founded on any intelligible differentia, which distinguishes him from other ViceChancellors and it has no rational relation to the object of the statute, and so S. 13A is hit by Art. 14.	Reasoning
52.	None
The appellant has attacked S. 13A, as discriminatory, relying upon a different provision, made under S. 33A, in respect of the Senate, Syndicate.	Arguments of Petitioner
Academic Council and the Finance Committee.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have, however, not considered the question as to whether the appellant can be treated as falling under the same class, as the other authorities mentioned in S. 33A as we have accepted the appellants contention, based upon Art. 14, on other grounds.	Reasoning
53.	None
For the above reasons, we accept the contentions of the learned counsel for the appellant.	None
and hold that S. 5 of the Second Amendment Act (Act XI of 1966), introducing S. 13A in the Act, is discriminatory and violative of Art.	None
14 of the Constitution and, as such, has to be struck down as unconstitutional.	None
The result is that the appeal is allowed, and the appellant will be entitled to his costs in the appeal, payable by the respondents, here and in the High Court.	Decision
54.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
