 Subba Rao, J.1.	None
This appeal by special leave is directed against the order of the Additional Deputy CustodianGeneral of Evacuee Property, New Delhi, dated September 29, 1954, setting aside the order dated August 25, 1952, of the Additional Custodian, Rural, Jullundur, confirming that of the Deputy Commissioner, Ambala, dated May 12, 1951.2.	None
The appellant belongs to a group of evacuees which may for convenience be described as Dhawan Group.	Facts
Diwan Chaman Lal, respondent No. 1, was a displaced person from West Pakistan where he owned considerable properties.	Facts
On September 1, 1949, in lieu of land left behind in Pakistan, he was allotted 152.9 acres of land in village Kharwan in Tehsil Jagadhri, District Ambala.	Facts
The appellant and his group also owned large extends of properties in West Pakistan.	Facts
Each one of that group was allotted different extends of land in the same village.	Facts
Before possession was taken by the allottees, two persons, namely, Hari Chand and Khilla Ram, filed applications dated November 14, 1949, and November 11, 1949, respectively for reallotment on the ground that the soil of the village was not of uniform quality and the allotment on the basis of blocks was not justified.	Facts
The Additional Deputy Commissioner, Ambala, recommended the splitting of the land into four blocks and the said recommendation was accepted by the DirectorGeneral.	Facts
Rural Rehabilitation, by his order dated December 2, 1949, Thereupon the village was divided into four blocks and was reallotted.	Facts
On account of the reallotment, the 1st respondent could not get his entire allotment in village Kharwan in one block and he was given instead land in different blocks and different villages.	Facts
Aggrieved by this order, the first respondent filed a review application before the Deputy Commissioner, Ambala, on September 27, 1950, praying for the restoration of his original allotment made on September 1, 1949.	Facts
The Deputy Commissioner, Ambala, rejected that application on May 12, 1951.	Facts
Against that order the first respondent preferred a revision to the Additional Custodian, who dismissed the same on August 25, 1952.	Facts
Against that order of dismissal, the first respondent filed a revision to the CustodianGeneral on October 30, 1952.	Facts
To that revision only the Custodian was made party but the appellant and the members of his group were subsequently made parties by an order of the Deputy CustodianGeneral dated August 25, 1953.	Facts
Thereafter notices were issued to them.	Facts
The appellant and others on their being made parties raised various contentions.	Facts
The Deputy CustodianGeneral cancelled the allotment made in favour of the Dhawan Group in respect of the excess area allotted to them and directed the land obtained by means of this cancellation to be utilised for the consolidation of the allotment of the first respondent in village Kharwan.	Facts
He also gave further consequential directions.	Facts
The present appeal is preferred by Purshotam Lal Dhawan, a member of the Dhawan Group, against the said order.3.	Facts
Learned counsel for the appellant raised before us the following two points (1) The revision to the Deputy CustodianGeneral was barred by time.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) On the date when the allotment made to the appellant was cancelled, the Deputy CustodianGeneral had no power to cancel the allotment.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
To appreciate the first contention some relevant dates may be given.	None
The order of the Additional Custodian was passed on August 25, 1952.	None
The said order was communicated to the first respondent on September 11, 1952.	None
The revision was filed on October 10, 1952.	None
On the date of the filing of the revision only the Deputy Custodian was made a party but later on the Dhawan Group was impleaded in the revision in October, 1953.	None
No application for excusing delay in preferring the revision against the said persons was made.	None
It was contended before the Deputy CustodianGeneral that the revision petition was barred by time against the Dhawan Group but the Deputy CustodianGeneral rejected the argument and disposed of the petition on merits.5.	None
The first question for consideration is whether the revision was barred by limitation in so far as the Dhawan Group was concerned.	None
Some of the relevant provisions regulating the power of revision of the CustodianGeneral may be noticed.	None
Section 27 of the Act says, the CustodianGeneral may at any time either on his own motion or on application made to him in this behalf call for the record of any proceedings in which any Custodian has passed an order for the purpose of satisfying himself as to the legality or propriety of any such order and may pass such order in relation thereto as he thinks fit.	None
Under the proviso to that section.	None
the CustodianGeneral shall not pass an order under the subsection prejudicial to any person without giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard.	None
In exercise of the powers conferred by S. 56 of the Act, the Central Government made the following rules among othersRule 31.	None
(5) Any petition for revision when made to the CustodianGeneral shall ordinarily be made within sixty days of the date of the order sought to be revised.	None
The petition shall be presented in person or through a legal petitioner or a recognized agent or may be sent by registered post.	None
The petition shall be accompanied by a copy of the order sought to be revised and also by a copy of the original order unless the revising Authority dispenses with the production of any such copy.	None
In contrast to the said provisions, R. 31 (1) dealing with appeals says,All appeals under the Act shall when they lie to the Custodian, be filed within thirty days of the date of the order appealed against and when they lie to the CustodianGeneral, within sixty days of such date.	None
Section 27 of the Act confers a plenary power of revision on the CustodianGeneral and it empowers him to exercise his revisional powers either suo motu or on application made in that behalf at any time.	Reasoning
The phrase at any time indicates that the power of the CustodianGeneral is uncontrolled by any time factor, but only by the scope of the Act within which he functions.	Reasoning
The Central Government cannot obviously make a rule unless S. 56 of the Act confers on it an express power to impose a time fetter on the CustodianGenerals power.	Reasoning
We do not find any such power conferred on the Central Government under S. 56 of the Act.	Reasoning
So the rule can only be read CustodianGeneral under S. 27 of the Act.	Reasoning
That must have been the reason why R. 31(5) does not prescribe any limitation on the CustodianGeneral to exercise suo motu his revisional power.	None
Even in the case of an application for revision filed before him it is said that ordinarily it shall be filed within sixty days.	None
The use of the word ordinarily indicates that the period of sixty days is not a period of limitation but only a rule of guidance for the petitioners as well as for the CustodianGeneral.	None
It is within the discretion of the CustodianGeneral to entertain revision petitions after sixty days, but the rule indicates to him that the reasonable period for entertaining a revision is sixty days.	None
The difference in the phraseology of subrules (1) and (5) of R.31 of the Rules also leads to the same conclusion, for in the matter of appeals a period of limitation of thirty days when made to the Custodian and sixty days when it lies to the CustodianGeneral is prescribed whereas no such rigid period has been laid down in the case of a revision.	None
If R. 31(5) is so read, its provisions will not conflict with those of S. 27 of the Act and in that event they would be valid.	None
The construction suggested by learned counsel for the appellant may lend scope to the argument that the rule is ultra vires the statute, for when a section says that there is no time limit for entertaining a revision, a rule cannot say that it shall be filed within a particular time.	None
The argument that the principle underlying S. 5 of the Limitation Act applies to a petition for revision under S. 27 of the Act has no force.	Reasoning
Section 5 of the Limitation Act applies to an appeal for which a period of limitation is prescribed and it empowers the court to admit the appeal after the period of limitation, if the applicant satisfied it that he has sufficient reason for not preferring the appeal within the prescribed time.	Reasoning
The principle thereunder cannot be made applicable to a revision petition under S. 27 of the Act in respect of which no period of limitation is prescribed.	Reasoning
At the same time we must make it clear that the powers of the CustodianGeneral under S. 27, read with R. 31(5), are not intended to be exercised arbitrarily.	Reasoning
Being a judicial power, he shall exercise his discretion reasonably and it is for him to consider whether in a particular case has should entertain a revision beyond the period of sixty days stated in R. 31 (5).In this case we cannot say that the CustodianGeneral had acted perversely or unreasonably in entertaining the revision.	Reasoning
The revision was filed in time.	Reasoning
The Dhawan Group was made party at the subsequent stage as the CustodianGeneral rightly thought that any order he would make in favour of the appellant might prejudice the Dhawan Group.	Reasoning
After giving them a reasonable opportunity of being heard within the meaning of the proviso to S. 27(1) of the Act, he made the order.	Reasoning
The CustodianGeneral therefore, acted reasonably within his powers.	Reasoning
This objection is overruled.6.	None
The second contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that the CustodianGeneral had no power to cancel an allotment made on or before July 22, 1952.	None
Let us recapitulate the relevant facts.	None
The original order of allotment was made in favour of the appellants group and of the first respondent on September 1, 1949.	None
There was reallotment on December 2, 1949.	None
The reallotment was cancelled by the Deputy CustodianGeneral by his order dated September 29, 1954.	None
The question is whether the Deputy CustodianGeneral can set aside the allotment made on December 2, 1949.	None
The question raised falls to be decided on the relevant provisions of the Act and the rules made thereunder.	None
Section 12 of the Act confers on the Custodian the power to cancel any allotment made by him whether such allotment was made or entered into before or after the commencement of the Act.	None
Rule 14 of the Rules narrates the grounds on which an allotment can be cancelled and also the procedure to be followed for cancelling such an allotment.	None
If a Custodian makes an order either cancelling or refusing to cancel an allotment, the CustodianGeneral can, under S. 27 of the Act set aside that order, if he is satisfied that it is not legal or proper, and he may pass such order in relation thereto as he thinks fit.	None
But it is said that R. 14(6) limits the power of the CustodianGeneral in respect of allotments made under the Act.	None
As the argument turns upon that rule, it would be convenient to read the material parts of it.	None
Rule 14.	None
(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in this rule, the Custodian of Evacuee Property in the State of Punjab shall not exercise the power of cancelling any allotment of rural evacuee property on a quasipermanent basis, or varying the terms of any such allotment, except in the following circumstancesAfter narrating the circumstances, with which we are not now concerned, the subrule contains a proviso which reads,Provided further nothing in this subrule shall apply to any application for revision, made under S. 26 or S. 27 of the Act, within the prescribed time, against an order passed by the lower authority on or before 22nd July, 1952.Under this subrule there is a ban on the exercise of the power of the Custodian to cancel an allotment of a rural evacuee property on a quasipermanent basis except under certain circumstances.	None
This subrule was substituted for the old subrule by S. R. O. 1290 of July 22, 1952.	None
A Custodian under the Act cannot set aside an allotment except under the circumstances mentioned in the subrule.	None
But the second proviso to that subrule lifts the ban in the case of an application made for revision under S. 26 or S. 27 of the Act.	None
It may be mentioned that the words or S. 27 after the words S. 26 were added in the subrule on August 26, 1953, i.e., before the order of the CustodianGeneral in the present case.	None
Section 26of	None
the Act, as it then stood, conferred revisional jurisdiction on the Custodian, Additional Custodian or Authorized Deputy Custodian against the orders of subordinate officers.	None
Section 27, as we have already noticed, confers a similar power of revision on the CustodianGeneral.	None
By reason of the proviso, the CustodianGeneral can, in exercise of his powers under S. 27 of the Act, cancel an allotment made by a lower authority on or before July 1952.	None
The only limitation on that power is that he must do so in a revision filed within the prescribed time.	None
What is the prescribed time for a revision under S. 27 of the Act?	None
Prescribed has been defined in the Act to mean prescribed by rules made under this Act.	None
Rule 31 (5) prescribes that a revision of the CustodianGeneral shall ordinarily be made within sixty days of the order sought to be revised.	None
In considering the first point, we have explained the scope of the rule and we have held that the said rule is only a rule of guidance and that in law a revision can be entertained at any time even after sixty days if the CustodianGeneral in his discretion thinks fit to entertain it.	Reasoning
The prescribed time in the context of a revision to the CustodianGeneral can only mean sixty days or such other time within which the CustodianGeneral in his discretion thinks fit to entertain the revision.	Reasoning
As the allotment in the present case was made before July 22, 1952 the CustodianGeneral was within his rights in cancelling the same.7.	Reasoning
Before weclose, it is necessary to notice another contention raised by learned counsel for the respondents.	Arguments of Respondent
The argument was that there was no allotment made in favour of the appellant and, therefore, there was no scope for invoking the provisions of R. 14 of the Rules.	Arguments of Respondent
The basis of the argument is the following observations of the Deputy CustodianGeneral in his order dated September 29, 1954The petitioner has rightly contended that the Dhawan Group had no verified claim for the allotment of this excess area and in spite of an opportunity afforded by me to them to produce the copies of their Parcha Claim, they have failed to do so.	None
The reports of the Land Claims Officer dated 7th August, 1952, and 11th August, 1952, on pages 147 and 151 of the record, show that although the allotment had been made to Dhawan Group but a search had been made for their claims which were not traceable.	None
On page 129 of the record, a report by the Department dated 21st August, 1952, shows that no order of allotment to Dhawan Group was forthcoming.	None
These observations do not record a clear finding that there was no allotment in favour of the appellant.	None
Indeed the factum of allotment to the appellant was never questioned throughout the proceedings.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, we must dispose of this appeal on the basis that there was an allotment in favour of the appellant.	Reasoning
This contention is, therefore, rejected.8.	Reasoning
No. other point was raised before us, In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.9.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
