 Arijit Pasayat, J. Leave granted.	None
Shorn of unnecessary details, the factual background giving rise to the present appeal is as follows Respondent no.1 as plaintiff filed a suit in the ordinary original civil jurisdiction of the Bombay High Court, inter alia, with the following prayers That the Defendant No.1 be ordered to pay the Plaintiffs a sum of Rs. 1,61,13,173.24 (Rupees one crore sixty one lakhs thirteen thousand one hundred and seventy three and twenty four paise) details of which are given in the enclosure at Annexure A to this plaint and the Defendant No.1 be directed to pay interest 21 till the date of actual payment.	None
a1 That Defendant No.1 be ordered and decreed to pay a sum of US 4140 per month alongwith interest 18 per annum from due date till payment realization with effect from 1st November, 1997 towards lease rent until all the 92 containers are returned.	None
In the alternative and without prejudice a2)	None
If this Honourable Court holds that the Plaintiffs are not entitled to claim lease rent beyond the termination of the lease agreement, in that event Defendant No.1 be ordered and decreed to pay a sum of US 4140 per month with interest 18 per annum as liquidated damages to the Plaintiffs.	None
Appellant is defendant no.1 in the suit.	Facts
According to the plaintiff it is a private limited company engaged amongst others in the business of supply of containers for the ships to carry goods from one place to another.	Facts
It supplied containers to the present appellant from time to time.	Facts
There was lease agreement entered into between the parties for use of leased containers.	Facts
The agreement expired on 30th March, 1996 but was further extended by one month.	Facts
Even during the extended period and thereafter the containers were not returned by the defendant.	Facts
no.1.	Facts
It entered into correspondence with defendant no.1 calling up it to return the containers and to pay the lease charges.	Facts
Cheques issued by the said defendant bounced on presentation.	Facts
The defendant no.1 by letter dated 26th April, 1996 addressed to the attorneys of the plaintiff informed that efforts were on to look for a suitable vessel to bring those containers from Plot Louis to Bombay.	Facts
But the containers were not returned.	Facts
Prior to the said letter dated 26th April, 1996 by two communications dated 10th January, 1996, it had been communicated that out of the total lot of 92, 35 containers could not be returned.	Facts
It was stated that those containers were lost leaving a balance of 57 containers.	Facts
The containers were given on lease basis and since there was no dispute about nonreturn,, demands were made for payment.	Facts
There was also no dispute regarding lease rental.	Facts
Ultimately, when the plaintiff found that the containers were not returned and also the lease charges were not paid, the suit No. 4794 of 1997 was filed seeking a sum of Rs. 1,61,13,173.14.	Facts
This included the claim for nonreturn of the containers and the claim for outstanding rental.	Facts
After the suit was filed, plaintiff took out a motion, being Notice of Motion No. 378 of 1998 for Receiver and injunction for the containers which were not returned.	Facts
The learned Single Judge by order dated 11th August, 1999, took the view that there was no case for appointing a Receiver for the properties by way of security for the amounts which may be due.	Facts
He also held that no irreparable loss will be caused if interim relief was not granted.	Facts
While rejecting this motion, however, liberty was granted to the plaintiff to take out the appropriate proceedings for a direction to defendant no.1 to deposit the arrears of rent, if any, due.	Facts
Order of the learned Single Judge was upheld by the Division Bench.	Facts
While disposing of the appeal, however, it was observed by it that the view expressed by learned Single Judge were of prim facie nature and were intended to dispose of the motion.	Facts
It was further observed that if the plaintiff moves an application for attachment before judgment, observations made in the order of learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench will not prejudice the application.	Facts
Thereafter another notice of motion was taken where it was prayed that defendant no.1 be directed to deposit the amount of Rs. 81,77,632.50, being the amount towards arrears of rental and also for a direction that per month an amount of Rs. 1,78,020/ be deposited from time to time.	Facts
Learned Single Judge took the view that the power of the Court under Order 12 Rule 6 of Civil Procedure Code, 1908 (in short the Code) dealing with decree on admission could not be invoked in the matter.	Facts
It was held that Section 151 of the Code was not available to the plaintiff to invoke the inherent jurisdiction on the facts of the case.	Facts
The orders were challenged by the plaintiff before the Division Bench which by the impugned order directed defendant no.1 to deposit an amount of Rs. 81,77,632.50 (rounded of to Rs. 82,00,000/) within 12 weeks period.	Facts
It was further directed that the amount was to be deposited in a nationalised bank for a period of 37 months and the deposit was to be renewed at a time by 13 months until the suit was decided.	Issue
This order is under challenge.	Issue
Mr. R.F. Nariman, learned senior counsel for the appellants submitted that the Division Bench manifestly erred in directing deposit by overlooking the factual and legal background involved.	Arguments of Petitioner
In a commercial suit where there was dispute regarding the liability such directions could not have been given.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even in respect of a summary suit under Order 37 there was no scope for giving the type of direction as done.	None
The Division Bench while implicitly upholding the view of learned Single Judge that Order 12 Rule 6 was not applicable could not have applied the logic of Order 39 Rule 10 of the Code which operates in an entirely different background.	None
It was pointed out that the Division Bench committed factual error in observing that there was no clear denial to the claim of the plaintiff and or that its stand was an evasive one and at times in the nature of an afterthought.	None
Having ruled out application of Order 12 Rule 6, it was not open to the Division Bench to bring in operation of Rule 39 Rule 10, of the Code with the help of Section 151.	None
It was also submitted that the claim as made clearly exaggerated, without any foundation or basis and neither in law nor equity plaintiff was entitled to any relief.	None
It was, however, accepted that at the most the plaintiff may be entitled to the arrears of rentals and nothing beyond that.	None
The question of making any payment for the rentals after expiry of the agreement period is also not contemplated in law.	None
There was no termination of the agreement and on the contrary it lost it currency after the extended period of one month beyond the initially stipulated last date.	None
Responding to the above submissions, Mr. K.K. Venugopal, learned senior counsel for the plaintiff (respondent no.1) submitted that here is a case where the party has taken advantage of its own wrong doings.	Arguments of Respondent
Undisputedly it had taken the containers on lease.	Arguments of Respondent
Clause 6 of the agreement clearly stipulates that rental charges were to be paid till the containers are returned.	Arguments of Respondent
This has admittedly not been done.	Arguments of Respondent
There are several letters where there was express acceptance of the liability.	Arguments of Respondent
Finally it was submitted that this is not a case where this Court should exercise powers under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, 1950 (in short the Constitution).	Arguments of Respondent
10.	None
By way of reply to the submissions made by Mr. Venugopal, Mr. Nariman submitted that the scope and ambit of Article 136 is too well known and, therefore, where substantial question of law relating to jurisdiction of a commercial court is raised, the Court has to see whether the impugned judgment meets the requirement of law.	None
According to him, it is too futile to contend that Article 136 will not be exercised in a case of this nature where the Division Bench of the High Court clearly acted contrary to wellsettled principle of law.	None
Few facts of relevance need to be noted in view of the rival stands.	Reasoning
Undisputedly, the order impugned is an interim order.	Reasoning
The direction is for deposit and no liberty has been granted to the plaintiff for withdrawal after the deposit.	Reasoning
As noted supra, there was no serious dispute relating to the claim for arrears of rentals.	Reasoning
Admittedly, 92 containers were leased out by the plaintiff to the defendant no.1 according to whom some of the containers were not traceable and were lost.	Reasoning
We may add here that subsequent to the filing of the suit, it was contended that all the 92 vessels were lost.	Reasoning
In view of the factual scenario unfolded above, it does not appears to be a case where interference under Article 136 of the Constitution is called for.	Reasoning
That power is exercised only on showing substantial injustice, and not for merely technical flaws in a proceeding.	Reasoning
(See Shahoodul Haque vs. The Registrar, Co operative Societies, Bihar and Anr.	Reasoning
(1975 (3) SCC 108) .	Reasoning
The position was illuminatingly stated in Rashpal Malhotra vs. Mrs. Satya Rajput and Anr.	Reasoning
(1987 (4) SCC 391) .	Reasoning
This Court in Heavy Engineering Corporation Ltd., Ranchi vs. K. Singh and Co., Ranchi (AIR 1977 SC 2031 ) expressed the opinion that although the powers of this Court were wide under Article 136, it could not be urged that because leave had been granted the court must always in every case deal with the merits, even though it was satisfied that the ends of justice did not justify its interference in a given case.	Reasoning
It is not as if, in an appeal with leave under Article 136, this Court was bound to decide the question if on facts at the later hearing the court felt that the ends of justice did not make it necessary to decide the point.	Reasoning
Similarly in Baigana vs. Deputy Collector of Consolidation (1978 (3) SCR 509 )	Reasoning
it was held that this Court was more than a court of appeal.	Reasoning
It exercises power only when there is supreme need.	Reasoning
It is not the fifth court of appeal, but the final court of the nation.	Reasoning
Therefore, even if legal flaws might be electronically detected, it may not interfere save manifest injustice or substantial question of public importance.	Reasoning
In Taherakhatoon (D) by Lrs. vs. Salambin Mohammad (1999 (2) SCC 635) , it was noted that even in cases where leave has been granted, the Court might after declaring the correct legal position decline to interfere saying that it would not exercise discretion to decide the case on merits and that it would decide on the basis of the equitable considerations in the facts and circumstances of the case and mould the final order.	Reasoning
Even if it is accepted for the sake of arguments that there was some faulty conclusion in law, the impugned order being an interim one, we do not consider this to be fit case for interference in exercise of jurisdiction under Article 136.	Decision
But, taking note of the peculiar facts, ends of justice would be best served if the appellant is directed to deposit Rupees Fifty lacs instead of Rupees Eighty two lacks by end of June, 2003.	Decision
The appeal is accordingly disposed of leaving the parties to bear their respective costs.	Decision
