 Dipak Misra, CJI	None
In the instant arbitration petition, preferred under Section 11(5) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (for brevity, the Act?), the petitioner seeks for constitution of an arbitral tribunal with a sole arbitrator to adjudicate the claims of the petitioner under the Commission Processing Contract dated 11.09.2014 and to pass such further order as may be deemed fit and proper in the facts and circumstances of the case.	None
The petitioner, company incorporated under the laws of People?s Republic of China having its office at Sanquiao Village, Fuchun Street, Fuyang, China, is engaged in the business of, inter alia, exporting and supplying high quality elevator guiderails, fishplates, accessories and allied goods.	Facts
The respondent, a partnership firm based in India having its office at Plot No.455, Road No.11, ?	Facts
A? Cross Road, GIDC, Kathwada, Ahmedabad 382430, Gujarat, is engaged in the business of supplying elevator components for use in the modernization of existing lifts and the new design of the elevator.3.	Facts
The contract, namely, Commission Processing Contract (hereinafter referred to as the Contract?) was entered into between the parties on 11.09.2014 in respect of supply of certain products under the Contract.	Facts
In the course of performance of the Contract, as certain differences had arisen and the parties were unable to amicably settle the disputes which fell within the scope of the arbitration clause, the petitioner appointed Justice V.S. Agarwal, former Judge, High Court of Judicature at New Delhi as the sole arbitrator.	Facts
On 30.03,2018, the petitioner called upon the respondent to consent to the appointment of the sole arbitrator within a period of thirty days from the receipt of the notice.	Facts
The respondent received the said notice on 31.03.2018 and the respondent in its reply dated 05.04.2018 refused to concur and consent to the appointment of the sole arbitrator.	Facts
Because of the aforesaid situation, the petitioner has been compelled to move this Court for appointment of the sole arbitrator.	Facts
When the matter was listed before this Court after service of notice, the learned counsel for the respondent has placed reliance on the reply dated 05.04.2018 given by the counsel for the respondent.	Facts
In the said reply, the facts asserted by the petitioner have been disputed.	Facts
That apart, it has been stated that the claims put forth are beyond the provisions of the Contract.	Facts
To appreciate the controversy, it is required to be seen whether there is an arbitration clause for resolution of the disputes.	None
Clause 15 of the agreement as translated in English reads as follows ?	None
15.	None
Dispute handling Common processing contract disputes, the parties should be settled through consultation consultation fails by treatment of to the arbitration body for arbitration or the court.?	None
It is submitted by learned counsel for the petitioner that if the clause of dispute handling?	Arguments of Petitioner
is scrutinized appropriately, the disputes are to be settled through consultation and, if the consultation fails by treatment of to the arbitration body for arbitration or Court and, therefore, the matter has to be referred to arbitration.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is canvassed by him that the clause is not categorically specific that it has to be adjudicated in a court of law.	Arguments of Petitioner
It leads to choices and the choice expressed by the petitioner is arbitration.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the respondent, in his turn, would urge that when it is stated arbitration or Court, the petitioner should knock at the doors of the competent court but not resort to arbitration, for the clause cannot be regarded as an arbitration clause which stipulates that the disputes shall be referred to arbitration.	Arguments of Respondent
To appreciate the clause in question, it is necessary to appositely understand the anatomy of the clause.	None
It stipulates the caption given to the clause dispute handling?.	None
It states that the disputes should be settled through consultation and if the consultation fails by treatment of to the arbitration body for arbitration or the court.	Arguments of Petitioner
On a query being made, learned counsel for the parties very fairly stated that though the translation is not happily worded, yet it postulates that the words ?arbitration or the court?	None
are undisputable as far as the adjudication of the disputes is concerned.	None
There is assertion that disputes have arisen between the parties.	None
The intention of the parties, as it flows from the clause, is that efforts have to be made to settle the disputes in an amicable manner and, therefore, two options are available, either to go for arbitration or for litigation in a court of law.	None
This Court had the occasion to deal with such a clause in the agreement in INDTEL Technical Services Private Limited vs. W.S. Atkins Rail Limited (2008) 10 SCC 308 .	Reasoning
In the said agreement, clause No.13 dealt with the settlement of disputes.	None
Clauses 13.2 and 13.3 that throw light on the present case were couched in the following language ?	None
13.2.	None
Subject to Clause 13.3 all disputes or differences arising out of, or in connection with, this agreement which cannot be settled amicably by the parties shall be referred to adjudication13.3.	None
If any dispute or difference under this agreement touches or concerns any dispute or difference under either of the subcontract agreements, then the parties agree that such dispute or difference hereunder will be referred to the adjudicator or the courts as the case may be appointed to decide the dispute or difference under the relevant subcontract agreement and the parties hereto agree to abide by such decision as if it were a decision under this agreement.?	None
Interpreting the aforesaid clauses, the Judge designated by the learned Chief Justice of India held thus ?	None
Furthermore, from the wording of Clause 13.2 and Clause 13.3, I am convinced, for the purpose of this application, that the parties to the memorandum intended to have their disputes resolved by arbitration and in the facts of this case the petition has to be allowed.?	Reasoning
The aforesaid passage makes it clear as crystal that emphasis has been laid on the intention of the parties to have their disputes resolved by arbitration.	None
In the case at hand, as we find, Clause 15 refers to arbitration or court.	Reasoning
Thus, there is an option and the petitioner has invoked the arbitration clause and, therefore, we have no hesitation, in the obtaining factual matrix of the case, for appointment of an arbitrator and, accordingly, Justice Prakash Prabhakar Naolekar, formerly a Judge of this Court, is appointed as sole Arbitrator to arbitrate upon the disputes which have arisen between the parties.	Reasoning
The learned Arbitrator shall be guided by the Arbitration Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015.	Decision
The learned Arbitrator shall make positive efforts to complete the arbitration proceedings as per the Act of 2015.12.	Decision
The Registry is directed to send a copy of this order to the sole Arbitrator.	Decision
Learned counsels for the parties are also at liberty to bring it to the notice of the Arbitrator.13.	Decision
The arbitration petition is, accordingly, allowed.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
FINAL ORDER Hon?ble the Chief Justice of India pronounced the judgment of the Bench comprising His Lordship, Hon?ble Mr. Justice A.M. Khanwilkar and Hon?ble Dr. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud.	None
The Arbitration Petition is allowed in terms of the signed reportable judgment.	None
Pending interlocutory applications, if any, shall stand disposed of.	None
