This appeal is filed against the order passed by the High Court in an application under Section 11(5) and (6) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (for short the ?Act?)	Issue
directing that the matter be referred to arbitration by a former Judge of the Andhra Pradesh High Court.	None
The respondent moved the aforesaid application on the basis that it is a partnership firm, carrying on business of civil works relating to irrigation structures.	Facts
The Irrigation Department of Government of Andhra Pradesh had given the work to the appellant herein.	Facts
Thus, the appellant was the main contractor and respondent was the subcontractor working under the appellant.	Facts
The works involved earth work excavation and cohesive nonswelling soil filling in KC Canal including CC lining and structures form KMs 156.650 to KMs 17000 of Package ICB10?	Facts
in Kurnool District of Andhra Pradesh.	Facts
The appellant identified the respondent as a suitable agency for execution of the work and entrusted the work to the respondent as a subcontractor.	Facts
After due negotiations, an agreement dated 29.1.2001 was entered into between the parties.	None
The agreement inter alia provides various terms and conditions including the nature of work to be executed by the respondent, security deposits, penalties leviable, commission to which the appellant would be entitled to, method of payment for the work undertaken, taxes and Government levies.	Facts
The agreement also contained an arbitration clause which reads as under ?	None
All disputes relating to the original contract shall be properly referred and correspond by the work contractor.	None
However, the settlement of disputes and consequential awards shall be to the account of principal contractor and work contractor.	Facts
All disputes relating to the work contract under this agreement shall be mutually settled between the work contractor and the principal contractor.	Facts
In case of any differences, the same will be decided by a sole arbitrator appointed by the principal contractor and work contractor.?Clause 6 of the agreement provides that the measurements shall be taken for the work done once in a month.	Facts
Payment shall be released as and when principal contractor received payment from the Department, duly deducting the commission and other recoveries as mentioned in Clause 6 above.	Facts
Final payment shall be released after completion of the work satisfactorily.	Facts
Clause 5 provided that the work contractor (subcontractor) shall be paid the balance amount after deducting certain amounts from the gross amount of running account bills.	Facts
Relevant part of clause 5 is as under The work contractor shall be paid the balance amount after deducting the following from the gross amount of running account bills.i.	Facts
a. Earth work excavation in bed and slopes including sectioning and leveling 14 (Fourteen percent only) of Agreement rate.b.	Facts
Filling bed and slopes with CNS soils as directed and as per specifications 17 (Seventeen percent only) of Agreement rates.ii.	Facts
Sales Tax Turnover Taxiii.	Facts
Income Tax in the running account bills.iv.	Facts
Value of materials etc., if any, supplied by the department or by the principal contractor and hire charges of machinery given.v.	Facts
Any other recoveries affected by the department in the account bills.	Facts
The agreement further provided that the final payment shall be released after completion of the work satisfactorily.	Facts
The respondent claims that it has executed the work to the satisfaction of the appellant and the State Government.	Facts
The appellant having received all the amounts from the Government of Andhra Pradesh failed to make corresponding payments to the respondent after deducting commission as stipulated under the agreement.	Facts
The respondent, therefore, approached and tried to persuade the appellant to make the payment of the outstanding amount after the completion of the entire work.	Facts
However, the appellant failed to pay.	Facts
Since the amounts were not paid by the appellant, the respondent served a Claim Notice on 6.5.2004 demanding the payment of Rs.1,01,27,776/. On 17.8.2004, the Appellant sent a reply to the aforesaid notice not only disputing the various claims but also raising a counter claim in the amount of Rs.32,12,950/ .	Facts
The appellant claimed that the accounts had been reconciled.	None
The parties had signed a full and final settlement document on 6.6.2003, under which the respondent acknowledged the receipt of certain amounts.	Facts
The balance of Rs.17,32,843/ was to be paid in two or three instalments before 30.6.2003.	Facts
After receiving the entire payment, the respondent was falsely claiming further amounts with mala fide intentions.	Facts
On receipt of the reply with the counterclaim, the respondent sent a further reply reiterating its claim and also disputing the counter claim of the appellant as being frivolous and false.	Facts
The respondent in the aforesaid reply also stated that unless the entire claim is satisfied, it will seek the remedy by way of arbitration.	Facts
In spite of the above, the appellant still made efforts to settle the entire dispute but without any useful results.	Facts
Instead of accepting the full and final settlement dated 6.6.2003, the respondent, in fact, raised a further claim for the amount of Rs.25,50,048/ towards the value of HSD oil supply and exemption of excise duties and sales tax which had been availed by the appellant.	Facts
A claim in this regard was sent to the appellant on 3052006.	None
According to the respondent, the total claim finally comes to Rs.1,26,77,824/ with interest accrued thereon at 18 per annum from 652004.	None
The appellant on 24.6.2004 denied the aforesaid claim.	Facts
The dispute not having been resolved, the respondent served a legal notice on the appellant dated 19.6.2006.	Facts
The appellant again denied the claim.	Facts
The respondent thereafter moved the application under Section 11(5) and (6) of the Arbitration Act.	Facts
The appellant filed a reply to the application disputing and denying the claims of the appellant.	Facts
The appellant stated that the application for appointment of Arbitrator is liable to be dismissed.	Facts
It was pleaded that Agreement dated, 29.1.2001 which contains the arbitration clause has been superseded by the full and final settlement agreement dated 6.6.2003.	Facts
It was further the case of the appellant that the respondent having received the entire amount in terms of the full and final settlement dated 662003 is estopped from filing the application under Section 11 (5) and (6) of the Arbitration Act.	Facts
According to the Appellant, since the entire dispute had been settled, no reference could be made to arbitration.	Facts
The appellant had also pleaded that the respondent had failed to disclose that the parties had entered into a full and final settlement on 662003.	None
The plea was also raised to the effect that invocation of the arbitration on 962006 is time barred as the cause of action for filing the application arose on 662003 when the full and final settlement was entered into between the parties.	None
It was also the case of the appellant that the works executed by the respondent not being of the required standard and specifications, were rejected by the Government.	Facts
Consequently, the appellant had to rectify the defects and incur extra expenses.	Facts
These were liable to the deducted from the amount claimed by the respondent.	Facts
It is also the claim of the appellant that since the works had not been satisfactorily completed, the agreement itself was terminated on 16112001.	None
The appellant had also pleaded that pursuant to the Settlement dated 662003, the respondent had received a sum of Rs.16 lakhs.	None
Therefore, there is no arbitrable dispute which can be referred to arbitration.	Facts
It is also the case of the appellant that he has actually suffered a loss as it has incurred an expenditure of Rs.32,13,950/ in rectification of the works which were unsatisfactorily performed by the respondent.	Facts
The appellant also claims that in order to maintain cordial relations, it had entered into a full and final settlement with the respondent with regard to the entire claims of the subcontractor.	None
Upon examination of the entire factual as well as the legal position, the High Court has allowed the application under Section 11 (5) and (6) of the Act.	None
This Appeal has been filed against the aforesaid Judgment of the High Court.	Facts
We have heard learned Counsel for the parties.	None
Mr. Arun Kathpalia, learned Advocate appearing for the appellant relied heavily on the full and final settlement and submitted that the settlement has been duly signed by a representative of the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the respondent cannot now be permitted to submit that there was no full and final settlement.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submitted that once there was full and final settlement, no arbitrable dispute remains which could have been referred to the Arbitrator.	Arguments of Petitioner
To make good his submissions, Mr. Kathpalia submitted that the respondent had been negligent in the performance of the works which were entrusted to the subcontractor.	None
This had ultimately led to the termination of the Agreement on 16112001.	None
In fact, the appellant had incurred huge amount of expenses in rectifying the defects in the works executed by the respondent.	None
Mr. Kathpalia relied on clauses 5 and 6 of the Agreement and submitted that the appellant was entitled to be compensated for the rectification work which had to be performed to the satisfaction of the Andhra Pradesh Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel also submitted that the respondent would be entitled to the final payment only upon satisfactory completion of the work entrusted to the subcontractor.	None
In order to settle the dispute between the parties and to maintain a cordial relationship, the parties have entered into a voluntary settlement on 662003 which is evidenced by the signatures appended on the same by the Manager of the respondent subcontractor.	None
In such circumstances, learned counsel submitted that there was no arbitrable dispute which could have been left to the Arbitrator and, therefore, the judgment of the High Court allowing the application under Section 11 (5) and (6) of the Act is erroneous.	None
He further submitted that in case the respondent intend to challenge the validity of the binding nature of the settlement, the dispute cannot be left to the Arbitrator.	Arguments of Petitioner
The settlement would form an independent contract which can only be nullified in appropriate proceedings being taken by the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of the submissions, the learned counsel relied on Nathani Steels Ltd. vs. Associated Constructions 1995 Supp (3) SCC 324.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Kathpalia relied on the observations made in paragraph 3 of the judgment.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel submits that the judgment of the High Court is erroneous and has to be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Mr. K. Swami, learned counsel appearing for the respondent submits that there is no full and final settlement of the amounts which were due to the respondent from the appellant.	Arguments of Respondent
He further submits that the respondent had executed all the works which were entrusted to his client to the full satisfaction of the appellant.	Arguments of Respondent
The claim and counter claim now made by the appellant is totally false and without any basis.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent is disputing each and every claim made by the appellant.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel further submitted that the alleged settlement dated 662003 is a unilateral document.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no agreement between the parties for a final settlement.	Arguments of Respondent
The document has been only received and the Manager has signed only to indicate that the letter has been received.	Arguments of Respondent
There have been no negotiations between the parties prior to the issuance of letter dated 662003.	None
He submits that the judgment relied upon by Mr. Kathpalia is not applicable in the facts of this case.	None
In fact, according to him, the matter is squarely covered by the judgment of this Court in National Insurance Company Limited vs. Boghara Polyfab Private Limited (2009) 1 SCC 267 .	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel has relied on paragraphs 33, 34 and 35 of the judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
It is pointed out that in paragraph 33, this Court has considered the ratio of the judgment in Nathani Steels (supra) and distinguished the same.	Arguments of Respondent
Relying upon the aforesaid judgment, the learned counsel submits that the appeal deserves to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel further submitted that the receipt of a sum of Rs.16 lakhs subsequent to the letter dated 662003 does not signify the acceptance by the respondent of the aforesaid letter as a full and final settlement.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned counsel, in fact, the claim of the respondent was for over Rs.10,00,000/ and, therefore, the amounts which were received by the respondent were only in part payment of the amount due.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the submissions made by the learned Counsel for the parties.	None
In our opinion, the question as to whether letter dated 662003 would constitute a full and final settlement would have to be determined on proper appreciation of the evidence led by the parties.	Reasoning
It is, in our opinion, open to two interpretations.	Reasoning
Which of the two interpretations is ultimately accepted will have to be decided by the appropriate forum.	Reasoning
We are also not inclined to accept the submissions of Mr. Kathpalia that if the alleged settlement is to be doubted, it cannot be doubted before the Arbitrator.	Reasoning
It must be remembered that the appellant is relying on the alleged settlement by way of defence.	Reasoning
The respondent has not accepted the same.	Reasoning
Nor has the respondent denied the execution of the document.	Reasoning
The respondent has also not claimed that the full and final settlement was signed under coercion, undue influence, fraud, misrepresentation or mistake.	Reasoning
Furthermore, the appellant had not made a claim on the basis of the settlement.	Reasoning
It would have been different, if the appellant had made a claim on the basis of settlement which was denied by the respondent by one or more of the defences, as noticed above.	Reasoning
In such circumstances, following the judgment in Nathanis case (supra), it would have to be held that the settlement can only be challenged in proper proceedings.	Reasoning
But these observations would be applicable only if there was a clear cut acceptance by the parties that there was a full and final settlement.	Reasoning
In fact, the matter would be squarely covered against the appellant by the ratio of the judgment in National Insurance Company Limited (supra) wherein this Court has considered the cases which were earlier considered in Nathanis Steel (supra) and observed as follows Nathani Steels related to a dispute on account of noncompletion of the contract.	None
The Court found that the said dispute was settled by and between the parties as per deed dated 20.12.1980 signed by both parties.	None
The deed referred to the prior discussions between the parties and recorded the amicable settlement of the disputes and differences between the parties in the presence of the Architect on the terms and conditions set out in clauses 1 to 8 thereof.	None
In view of it, the Court rejected the contention of the contractor that the settlement was liable to be set aside on the ground of mistake.	None
A threeJudge Bench of this Court, after referring to the decisions in P.K. Ramaiah and Nay Bharat Builders, held thus (SCC p.326, para 3) ?	None
3??	None
that once the parties have arrived at a settlement in respect of any dispute or difference arising under a contract and that dispute or the difference is amicable settled by way of a final settlement by and between the parties, unless that settlement is set aside in proper proceedings, it cannot lie in the mouth of one of the parties to the settlement to spurn it on the ground that it was a mistake and proceed to invoke the Arbitration clause.	None
If this is permitted the sanctity of contract, the settlement also being a contract, would be wholly lost and it would be open to one party to take the benefit under the settlement and then to question the same on the ground of mistake without having the settlement set aside.	None
In the circumstances, we think that in the instant case since the dispute or difference was finally settled and payments were made as per the settlement, it was not open to the respondent unilaterally to treat the settlement as non est and proceed to invoke the Arbitration clause.	None
What requires to be noticed is that in Nav Bharat Builders and Nathani Steels, this Court on examination of facts, was satisfied that there were negotiations and voluntary settlement of all pending disputes, and the contract was discharged by accord and satisfaction.	None
In P.K. Ramaiah, the Court was satisfied that there was a voluntary acceptance of the measurements and full and final payment of the amount found due, resulting in discharge of the contract, leaving no outstanding claim or pending dispute.	None
In those circumstances, this Court held that after such voluntary accord and satisfaction or discharge of the contract, there could be no arbitrable disputes.	None
In Damodar Valley Corporation, the question that arose for consideration of this Court was as follows (SCC p. 144	None
para 4) where one of the parties refers a dispute or disputes to arbitration and the other party takes a plea that there was a final settlement of all claims, is the Court, on an application under Sections 9(b) and 33 of the Act, entitled to enquire into the truth and validity of the averment as to whether there was or was not a final settlement on the ground that if that was proved it would bar a reference to the arbitration inasmuch as the arbitration clause itself would perish.	None
In that case the question arose with reference to a claim by the supplier.	Reasoning
The purchaser required the supplier to furnish a full and final receipt.	Reasoning
But the supplier did not give such a receipt.	Reasoning
Even though there was no discharge voucher, the purchaser contended that the payments made by it were in full and final settlement of the bills.	Reasoning
This Court rejected that contention and held that the question whether there has been a settlement of all the claims arising in connection with the contract also postulates the existence of the contract which would mean that the arbitration clause operates.	Reasoning
This Court held that the question whether there has been a full and final settlement of a claim under the contract is itself a dispute arising upon or in relation to or in connection with the contract and where there is an arbitration clause in a contract, notwithstanding the plea that there was a full and final settlement between the parties, that dispute can be referred to arbitration.	Reasoning
It was also observed that mere claim of accord and satisfaction may not put an end to the arbitration clause.	Reasoning
It is significant that neither P.K. Ramaiah nor Nathani Steels disagreed with the decision in Damodar Valley Corporation but only distinguished it on the ground that there was no full and final discharge voucher showing accord and satisfaction in that case.	Reasoning
In our opinion, since there is no acceptance of the full and final settlement by the Respondent which has been relied upon by the appellant, the issue clearly had to be left to the Arbitrator to be adjudicated.	Reasoning
In view of the above, we find no merit in the appeal and the same is accordingly dismissed.	Decision
Before we part with this matter, we would request the learned Arbitrator to conclude the Arbitration Proceedings as expeditiously as possible since the matter was referred long back as this would be in the interest of justice.	Decision
