 The present appeal has been filed by way of special leave against the final judgment and order dated 28.07.2014 passed by the High Court of Judicature of Delhi in R.C. Rev. No.245 of 2014 dismissing the revision petition filed by the appellant affirming the order of eviction passed by the Tribunal and ordering his eviction from the suit scheduled premises.	Issue
Briefly, the facts are as follows The suit scheduled premises, bearing No. C1 (old property No. 285)	Facts
Basai Dara Pur, Sharda Puri, Ring Road, New Delhi  110015 comprises of two big rooms and one small room as shown in red colour in the site plan Ex. PW1/2.	Facts
Appellant tenant was inducted as tenant in the suit scheduled premises by the erstwhile owner of the premises vide Rent Deed dated 20.07.1989.	Facts
Subsequently, the respondent landlady acquired the premises under a registered sale deed dated 11.12.2002.	Facts
The respondent sought eviction of the appellant from the suit premises by filing a petition under Section 14(1)(e) of Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958 on the ground of bona fide requirement.	Facts
Respondent claimed that her son Sh.	Facts
Vaibhav Maheshwari required the premises for running his separate business of sanitary and hardware products as the suit premises has a prime location for the said business.	Facts
Respondents son was pursuing MBA at the time of the filing of the eviction petition and completed the same in June, 2011.3.	Facts
The appellant controverted the claim of bona fide requirement set up by the respondent by maintaining that the son of the landlord is employed as a Director in the company M s. Jaishree Granites Pvt. Ltd. and earns L 50,000/ per month.	Facts
The appellant further contended that respondents husband is running business of marble and granite from several locations in the city which can be preferably used to accommodate the business of respondents son.	Facts
Following premises were suggested as an alternative accommodation for running sanitary and hardware business of respondents son Property No. 285B, Basai Darapur, Sharda Puri, Ring Road, New Delhi owned by husband of the respondent, Property No. A2/53, W.H.S., Kirti Nagar, New Delhi owned by husband of the respondent, Property No. D201, Mansarovar Garden, New Delhi owned by husband of the respondent, Property Nos. 43, 44, 45 and 46 situated at BlockA1, W.H.S., Kirti Nagar, New Delhi owned by the company M s. Jaishree Granites Pvt. Ltd, Property No. D12, Rajouri Garden, Ring Road, New Delhi which is the registered office of the M s. Jaishree Granites Pvt. Ltd.4.	Facts
On a proper appreciation of facts and evidences available on record, the Additional Rent Controller vide order dated 26.02.2014 in E. No. 249/2011, passed an eviction order in favour of the respondent and directed the appellant to vacate the suit scheduled premises in accordance with law.	Facts
The Additional Rent Controller held that the respondent has established that the tenanted premise is required for her dependant son and that there is no alternative vacant accommodation suitably available for her son for his business.	Facts
Aggrieved thereof, the appellant filed revision petition before the High Court challenging the order of eviction passed by Additional Rent Controller.	Facts
The High Court vide impugned order dismissed the revision petition holding that no case is made out to interfere with the detailed order passed by the Additional Rent Controller decreeing the eviction petition of bona fide necessity.	Facts
It was held that the respondentLandlady and her son are at liberty to decide which premise is more suitable for running business of sanitary and hardware.5.	Facts
We have heard the parties at considerable length.	None
No new contentions have been put forth by the parties before us.	None
The appellant has alleged that the High Court erred in affirming the eviction decree passed by the Addl.	Arguments of Petitioner
Rent Controller as no case of bona fide necessity was established by the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
Allegedly, alternate accommodations were available for occupation of respondents son which were not suitable for running sanitary and hardware business which the respondent neglected to consider.	Arguments of Petitioner
Moreover, the appellant alleged that the High Court erred in not noticing that the respondent did not set up her bona fide requirement rather she set up a case of bona fide requirement of her son and thus, no relief should have been granted to her without keeping in view the comparative hardship to the appellant tenant.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the contrary, the respondent has maintained that the courts below have recorded concurrent findings of fact that no suitable accommodation was available for running business of sanitary and hardware by her son and have rightly passed an eviction order in favour of the respondent.	Arguments of Respondent
More so, the respondent cannot be dictated the terms of occupation of her selfowned properties.7.	Arguments of Respondent
We have carefully considered the rival contentions and perused the impugned judgment and materials on record.	None
Both the courts below have allowed the eviction petition filed by the respondent against the appellant on the ground of bona fide requirement under Section 14(1)(e) of Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958 by recording concurrent findings.	None
First and foremost, the landlordtenant relationship between the parties is not in dispute.	None
The only dispute relates to bona fide requirement of the respondent for business of her son and availability nonavailability of alternative suitable accommodation.	None
The concurrent findings recorded by the courts below are as follows Firstly, It was held that the fact that respondents son is engaged as Director in the family company M s. Jaishree Granites Pvt. Ltd. and earns a salary of L 50,000/ cannot be an impediment to his running a separate business of sanitary and hardware.	None
The courts held that the law does not provide that if a landlord landlady requires the premises for running business of his her young son who is an MBA, and is already engaged in some other business, he is acting malafidely and thus, no relief should be granted to him her.	None
Secondly, the courts below considered the suitability of every alternative accommodation suggested by the appellant which can preferably be occupied by the respondents son for running his business.	None
The appellant had suggested following alternative premises Property No	None
. 285B, Basai Darapur, Sharda Puri, Ring Road, New Delhi owned by husband of the respondent, Property no.	None
A2/53, W.H.S., Kirti Nagar, New Delhi owned by husband of the respondent, Property No. D201, Mansarovar Garden, New Delhi owned by husband of the respondent, Property Nos. 43, 44, 45 and 46 situated at BlockA1, W.H.S. Kirti Nagar, New Delhi owned by the company M s. Jaishree Granites Pvt. Ltd, Property No. D12, Rajouri Garden, Ring Road, New Delhi which is the registered office of M s. Jaishree Granites Pvt.	None
Ltd.	None
The courts found that the properties in the name of family company, M s. Jaishree Granites Pvt.	None
Ltd. viz.	None
Property nos.	None
43,44,45 and 46 situated at BlockA1, W.H.S. Kirti Nagar, New Delhi and Property No.	None
D12, Rajouri Garden, Ring Road, New Delhi were not located in a market area and thus, they were unsuitable for occupation especially when other suitable premise was available in the market area.	None
The property No. 285B which was owned by the husband of the respondent was found already in occupation as a retail outlet for marble and granite run by the husband of the respondent.	Reasoning
The courts considered the allegation of the appellant that property	Reasoning
No. 285B is owned by the respondent and not by her husband.	Reasoning
The appellant had produced a copy of Income Tax Returns of the respondent for establishing his claim.	Reasoning
However, the High Court rejected the said claim on finding that the alphabet B appearing after number 285 under the head of rental incomes was wrongly written in the Income Tax Return of the respondent.	Reasoning
Moreover, the High Court found that the appellant had himself stated in his pleadings that property no.	Reasoning
285B belonged to the husband of the respondent and not to the respondent.	Reasoning
Also, with regard to property No. A2/53 at Kirti Nagar which is also owned by the husband of the respondent, the courts found that it is being used by	Reasoning
M s. Jaishree Granites Pvt. Ltd. as godown for the stock of the marble and granite.11.	Reasoning
So far as property bearing No. D201, Mansarovar Garden, New Delhi is concerned, the appellant made a case that the entire property including the ground floor of property	Reasoning
No. D201 was available to the respondent which could have been suitably used for running her sons business as it was located on the main road and in a market area also.	Reasoning
The courts noted that the appellant has admitted in his crossexamination that the first floor and second floor of the property No. D201 is in occupation of brotherinlaw (Devar) of the respondent who is carrying on his business in the said premises.	Reasoning
The court also noted that in his cross examination, the appellant has suggested that if not on the first or second floor, respondents son can occupy the basement of property No. D201.	Reasoning
Having so noted, the High Court has observed that the appellant impliedly admitting that the husband of the respondent is not the owner of the ground floor of property No. D201.	Reasoning
The courts also noted that the appellant has not specifically pleaded in his written submissions that the ground floor of property No. D201 is owned by the husband of the respondent.	Reasoning
In such facts and circumstances, the courts recorded concurrent finding of fact that ground floor of property No.	Reasoning
D201 does not belong to husband of the respondent and thus the question of its suitability as an alternate accommodation does not arise in the present case.12.	Reasoning
In light of the above, Additional Rent Controller and the High Court rightly concluded that no alternative premise was lying vacant for running business of respondents son.	Reasoning
The High Court rightly relied on the ratio of Anil Bajaj Anr v. Vinod Ahuja, 2014(1) R.C.R.(Rent) 484 2014(2) R.C.R.(Civil) 974 2014(3) Recent Apex Judgments (R.A.J.) 220 2014 (6) SCALE 572 to hold that it is perfectly open to the landlord to choose a more suitable premises for carrying on the business by her son and that the respondent cannot be dictated by the appellant as to from which shop her son should start the business from.13.	Reasoning
The concurrent findings recorded by the courts below are based on evidence and materials on record, we do not find any infirmity warranting interference with the impugned judgment.14.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeal is dismissed.	Decision
Time is granted till 31st March, 2017 to the appellant to vacate the premises on filing of usual undertaking in the Registry of this Court within four weeks from today.	Decision
