 Kania C. J.1.	None
I agree with the judgment prepared by Sastri J. and have nothing more to add.	None
Patanjali Sastri J.2.	None
The common question which arises for consideration in these petitions is whether certain provisions of the Preventive Detention (Amendment) Act, 1951, purporting to amend the Preventive Detention Act, 1950, so as to authorise detention of the petitioners to be continued beyond the expiry of one year areultra viresand inoperative.3.	Issue
The Amending Act (hereinafter referred to as the new Act) came into force on 22 21951, and by Substituting the figures 1952 for 1951 in Sub S.(3) of S. 1, Preventive Detention Act, 1950, (hereinafter referred to as the old Act it continues the operation of the old Act till 3131952.4.	Facts
The petitioners in all these case were, at the commencement of the new Act, under detention in pursuance of orders made under S. 3 (1) (a) (ii) of the old Act and save in a few cases where the detention was also attacked on some special grounds which have no Substance, the legality of that detention was not open to question.	Facts
But such detention having commenced more than a year before the date of bearing of these petitions, the petitioners would have been entitled to be released had it not been for the provisions of the new Act which purport to authorise the continuance of their detention .5.	Facts
Mr. Nambiyar, on behalf of the petitioners, urged that these provisions contravened Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
22 (4)(a) of the Constitution and were, therefore, void under Art.13 (2).	Arguments of Petitioner
Art. 22	Arguments of Petitioner
(4) (a) provides No law providing for preventive detention shall authorise the detention of a person for a longer period than three months unless (a) an Advisory Board consisting of persons who are, or have been, or are qualified to be appointed as, Judges of a High Court has reported before the expiration of the said period of three months that there is in its opinion sufficient cause for such detentionProvided that nothing in this SubClause shall authorise the detention of any person beyond the maximum period prescribed by any law made by Parliament under SubCl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(b) of Cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(7).6.	None
It will be seen that two conditions have to be fulfilled in order that a person can be detained for a longer period than three months (i) his case must be referred to an Advisory Board constituted in the manner specified and (ii) that Board must make a report before the expiration of three months that there is sufficient cause for such detention.	None
S. 12 of the old Act having provided that there was to be no review by an Advisory Board in cases falling within s. 3 (1) (a) (ii), the petitioners detention in pursuance of orders made under the latter section fell under Art.	None
22 (4) (b), and there was no question, therefore, of such detention contravening Art.	None
22 (4) (a).	None
The scheme of the new Act, however, was to extend the benefit of a review by an Advisory Board to all cases and to bind the detaining authorities to act conformably to the report of the Board.	None
The method adopted to give effect to this scheme was to delete some of the provisions of the old Act and to Substitute in their place new provisions.7.	None
The material provisions of the new Act are Ss. 9, 10, 11 and 12.	None
S. 9 provides for a reference to an Advisory Board within six weeks from the date specified in Subs(2) which says The date referred to in Subs(1) shall be  (a) in every case where at the commencement of the Preventive Detention (Amendment) Act, 1951, the person is under detention in pursuance of a detention order made under Sub.Cl.	None
(i) or Sub Cl.	None
(ii) of Cl.	None
(a) of Subs(1) of S. 3, the date of commencement of the said Act and(b) in every other case the date of detention under the order.	None
By s. 10 the Advisory Board is required to Submit its report within ten weeks from the date specified in SubS. (2) of S.9.	None
S. 11 (1) authorises the appropriate Govt.	None
to continue the period of detention for such period as it thinks fit in case the Advisory Board reports that there are sufficient grounds for the detention, while Subs.	None
(2) provides that the Govt.	None
shall revoke the detention order and release the person concerned if the Advisory Board reports the other way.	None
SubS. (1) of S. 12 declares for the avoidance of doubt that every detention order in force at the commencement of the new Act shall continue in force and shall have effect as if it had been made under this Act as amended by the new Act, SubS. (2) provides that nothing contained in SubS. (3) of S. 1 or in Sub S. (1) of S.12 of the old Act shall affect the validity or duration of any such order.8.	None
It will be seen that although the object of the new Act was to liberalise the provisions of the old Act in the manner indicated above, S. 12 had the effect of enlarging the period of detention of the petitioners who were under detention at the commencement of the new Act by enacting the legal fiction that detention in such cases shall have effect as if it had been made under the new Act.	None
On that basis, the new Act seeks to bring detention orders in force at its commencement and more than three months old into conformity with Art, 22 (4) (a) by prescribing a period of six weeks in S 9 for referring such cases to the Advisory Board and ten weeks in S. 10 (1) for the Submission by the Board of its report, the period in each being calculated from the commencement of the new Act.	None
But this fiction cannot obscure the fact that in the case of the petitioners more than three months had elapsed from the date of their arrest without any Advisory Board making a report on their detention and it is, of course, not possible for the Advisory Board now provided for in such cases to Submit its report before the expiration of that period, with the result that their detention contravened Art. 22 (4)(a).	Reasoning
No doubt the detention up to the commencement of the new Act was lawful under S.12 of the old Act, as it was in accordance with SubCl.	Reasoning
(b) of Cl, (4) of Art. 22, but that could not make the petitioners continued detention any the less a violation of Art. 22	Reasoning
(4) (a) after the deletion of old S. 12.	Reasoning
It is a fallacy to treat what was a lawful detention under SubCl.	Reasoning
(b) as being no detention at all for purposes of Sub Cl.	Reasoning
(a).	Reasoning
Detention is a hard physical fact, and the total period of detention of the petitioners having far exceeded three months without an Advisory Board having reported within three months that there were sufficient grounds therefor, it could not lawfully be continued under Art.	Reasoning
22 (4) (a).	None
Constitutional provisions regarding fundamental rights cannot be circumvented by resorting to legal fictions.9.	None
It was said that if the petitioners had been released on 2221951 and rearrested and detained immediately thereafter under the new Act such detention would have been valid.	None
But, for proceeding in that manner the enactment of Ss. 9 (2) (a) and 12 (1) would be unnecessary, Parliament has, however, adopted a different mode of proceeding by providing for the continuance of detention orders in force at the commencement of the new Act on the basis that they should have effect as if they had been made under the new Act.	None
The resulting position must, therefore, be dealt with only on that basis and not on any other hypothetical footing.10.	None
The AttorneyGeneral, however, contended in the alternative that the constitutional validity of S. 9 (2) (a) and S. 12 (1) of the new Act could be sustained under Art. 22 (4) (b) which has been held by a majority of the Judges in A. K. Gopalan v. The State of Madras,1950 S. C. R. 88 to be a distinct and independent provision authorising preventive detention for a period longer than three months in accordance with a law made by Parliament under SubCls.	Arguments of Respondent
(a) and (b) of Cl.	Reasoning
(7) of Art.	None
21.	None
The AttorneyGeneral Claimed that the aforesaid provisions were such a law, none the less because Parliament may have intended to make a law within Art.	Arguments of Respondent
22 (4) (a) by providing for and review by an Advisory Board in all cases of preventive detention.	Arguments of Respondent
On a question of vires, the intention of the Legislature is immaterial, and I agree that a provision for an Advisory Board is not a hallmark which stamps a preventive detention law as one necessarily falling within Sub.Cl.	None
(a) of Cl.	Reasoning
(4), so as to make its constitutional validity determinable exclusively with reference to the requirements of that SubClause.	Reasoning
The law could still be upheld if it fulfilled the conditions laid down in Sub Cl.	Reasoning
(b) of Cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(4).	Reasoning
Mr. Nambiyar, however, Submitted that the new Act did not fulfil those conditions, for, it is not a law made under SubCls.	Arguments of Petitioner
(a) and (b) of Cl.	Reasoning
(I).	Arguments of Petitioner
The word and should be understood in its ordinary conjunctive sense and the new Act neither prescribes the circumstances and Classes referred to in SubCl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(a) nor the maximum period of detention required to be prescribed under SubCl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(b) of Cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(7).	Reasoning
The contention is devoid of Substance.	None
The new Act can, in my opinion, be regarded as a law made Substantially in accordance with SubCls.	Reasoning
(a) and (b) of Cl.	Reasoning
(7).	Reasoning
According to the majority view in Gopalans case, Sub. Cl.	Reasoning
(a) of Cl.	Reasoning
(7) being an enabling provision, the word and should be understood in a disjunctive sense.	Reasoning
The combined effect of Ss. 9 (2) (a) and 12 (1) is to provide, in a certain Class of cases, namely, where detention orders were in force at the commencement of the new Act, that the persons concerned could be detained for a period longer than three months if an Advisory Board reports that there are sufficient grounds for detention within ten weeks from the commencement of the new Act, that is to say, without obtaining the opinion of an Advisory Board before the expiration of the three months from the commencement of the detention as provided in SubCl.	Reasoning
(a) of Cl.	Reasoning
(4).	Reasoning
And, although the new Act does not in express terms prescribe in and separate provision any maximum period as such for which any person may in any Class or Classes of cases be detained, it fixes, by extending the duration of the old Act till 141952, an over all timelimit beyond which preventive detention under the Act cannot be continued.	Reasoning
The general rule in regard to a temporary statue is that, in the absence of special provision to the contrary, proceedings which are being taken against a person under it willipso facto terminate as soon as the statute expires (Craies on Statutes, Edn. 4, p. 347).	Reasoning
Preventive detention which would but for the Act authorising it, be a continuing wrong, cannot, therefore, be continued beyond the expiry of the Act itself.	Reasoning
The new Act thus in Substance prescribes a maximum period of detention under it by providing that it shall cease to have effect on a specified date.	Reasoning
It seems to me, therefore, that S. 9 (2)(a) and S. 12 (1) of the new Act Substantially satisfy the requirements of SubCl.	Reasoning
(b) of Cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(4) of Art. 22, and cannot be declared unconstitutional and void.11.	None
The objection to the validity of S. 11 (1) can be disposed of in a few words.	None
The argument is that the discretionary power given to the appropriate Govt.	None
under that Subsection to continue the detention for such period as it thinks fit authorises preventive detention for an indefinite period, which is contrary to the provisions of Art.	Reasoning
22 (4).But, if, as already observed the new Act is to be in force only up to 141952 and no detention under the Act can continue thereafter, the discretionary power could be exercised only Subject to that over all limit.	Reasoning
The objection, therefore, fails,12.	Reasoning
In the result the petitions are dismissed.	Decision
Mahajan J.13.	None
The question to be decided in these petitions is whether the Preventive Detention (Amendment) Act, 1951, or any part thereof is invalid and whether the petitioners who have been detained are entitled to a writ in the nature of habeas corpus on the ground that their detention is illegal.14.	None
The Act was enacted by Parliament on 2721951 and according to its express terms will cease to have effect on 141959, save as regards things done or omitted to be done before that date.15.	None
The point that has been canvassed before us is that Ss. 9 (2) (a) and 12 of the Act are invalid as these infringe the fundamental rights conferred under Arts. 21 and 22 of Part III of the Constitution.	None
S. 9 of the Act as amended reads as follows(1)	None
In every case where and detention order has been made under this Act the appropriate Govt.	None
shall within six weeks from the date specified in Subs.	None
(2)place before an advisory board constituted by it under S .8	None
the grounds on which the order has been made and the representation, if any, made by the person affected by the order, and in case where the order has been made by an officer also, the report made by such officer, under Subs (3) of S. 3.2.	None
The date referred to it in Subs.	None
(1) shall be(a) in every case where at the commencement of the Preventive Detention (Amendment Act.	None
1951, a person is under detention in pursuance of and detention order made under SubCl.	None
(i) or (ii ) of Cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(a) of Subs (1) of S. 3, the date of commencement of the said Act and(b) in every other case the date of the detention order.16.	None
S. 12 is in these termsFor the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared (a) every detention order in force at the commencement of the Preventive Detention (Amendment) Act, l951 shall continue in force and shall have effect if it had been made under this Act as amended by the Preventive Detention (Amendment) Act, 1951 and(b) nothing contained in Subs (3) of S.1, or Sus.	None
(1) of S. 12 of this Act as originally enacted shall be deemed to affect the validity or duration of any such order.17.	None
Mr. Nambiar for the detenus challenged the vires of these sections on the following grounds (1) That Art. 22	Arguments of Petitioner
(4) of the Constitution limits the legislative power of Parliament and State legislatures in respect of preventive detention laws in the matter of duration of the period of detention and provides that no law of preventive detention can authorise the detention of a person for a longer period than three months without the intervention of an advisory board and without obtaining its opinion within three months.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Amending Act, 1951 by S. 9 anthorizes detention for a period longer than three months without the opinion of the advisory board having been obtained within the said period of three months from the date of the actual detention in respect of persons detained under Act IV 4 of 1950 as it originally stood and it thus infringes the fundamental right conferred by Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
22 (4), (2) That Parliament in exercise of powers conferred on it under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
22 (7) having prescribed in S. 12 of Act IV 4 of 1950 and maximum period of one year for detention in certain Classes of cases without obtaining the opinion of the advisory board that period of one year became a part of the content of the fundamental right conferred under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
22 (4) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ss. 9 and 12 of the amended Act contravene this fundamental right inasmuch as they authorize detention of persons who were detained under orders passed under S. 3 (1) (i) and (ii) of Act IV 4 of 1950 beyond the period of one year prescribed there in, and are therefore void.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3) That Parliament has no authority to alter the period of one year prescribed by it by virtue of authority given to it under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
22 (7) (b) of the Constitution	Arguments of Petitioner
so as to affect the cases of persons detained under Act IV 4 of 1950.	Arguments of Petitioner
(4) That the Constitution does not envisage detention for an indefinite period and that inasmuch as the amended Act has failed to provide a maximum period for the detention of and person, it is repugnant to the Constitution and is void that it was obligatory on Parliament while making the law providing for preventive detention to fix the maximum period for such detention.	Arguments of Petitioner
(5) That the provisions of these sections infringe Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
21 of the Constitution inasmuch as they authorize detention contrary to procedure established by law (Act IV 4 of 1950) in respect of detentions under that Act, because under established procedure detention beyond a period of one year was void.	Arguments of Petitioner
For the reasons given above, it was contended trial as in the case of the petitioners the maximum period of one year under S. 12 of Act IV 4 of 1950 had expired on 2721951, they were entitled to their release.18.	Arguments of Petitioner
For a proper appreciation of the points urged by the learned counsel and the manner in which they were combated by the learned Attorney General, it is necessary to shortly state the nature of the relevant amendments introduced by the amending Act in the Preventive Detention Act IV 4 of 1950.	None
In S. 8 of Act IV 4 of 1950, which concerns the Constitution of advisory boards, the new Act has provided that the board shall consist of three persons instead of two except in cases where before the commencement of the amended Act reference had already been made to an advisory board.	None
S. 9 of Act IV 4 of 1950 has been substituted by S. 9 of the amending Act and it gives the benefit of the advisory board to all Classes and cases of persons, who, under Act IV 4 of 1950, were not entitled to that benefit.	None
It makes it obligatory on Govt.	None
to place all these cases, like all other cases, within six weeks from a prescribed date before an advisory board.	None
In section to the amended Act makes it obligatory on the advisory board to Submit its report to the Govt.	None
within ten weeks of the date specified under S. 9 and it also authorizes the advisory board to call for such information as it deems necessary from Govt.	None
and from the person concerned and it empowers it to give a hearing to the detenu if in any particular case it considers it essential.	None
S. 11 makes the opinion of the advisory board binding on Govt.	None
It also authorizes Govt.	None
to continue the detention of persons for such period as it thinks fit in cases where the opinion of the board is in favour of the continuance of detention.	None
S. 19 provides that orders of detention in force at the commencement of the amended Act will be deemed to have been made under this Act.	None
A new s. 14 has been introduced in Act IV 4 of 1950 and it authorizes temporary release of persons detained.19.	None
The provisions of the amended Act are thus a great improvement on the original Act inasmuch as they provide a greater opportunity to the detenus of proving their innocence than they had under the original Act.	None
The detention of a person without the case being referred to the opinion of an advisory board constituted of independent persons has been completely done away with except for a period of three months provided for in Art.	None
22 (4) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
What the amended Act has in Substance done is that instead of the cases of persons preventively detained being considered by ordinary Courts of law, a special tribunal designated as an advisory board and consisting of men of high judicial experience has been given authority to examine their cases within a prescribed period and the decision of that authority has been made binding on Govt.	None
This tribunal is obviously no Substitute for a Court of law but a provision like this is in the nature of a Substantial solatium in cases of preventive detention wherein ordinarily the detaining authority is the judging authority as well.20.	None
Shortly stated, Mr. Nambiars attack on these beneficial provisions and concerning their vires is based principally on the method adopted by the draftsmen of the Act for switching over the detentions which were being continued under S. 12 of Act IV 4 of 1950 and which were valid by virtue of the constitutional provisions contained in Art. 22 (4) (b) of the Constitution to the constitutional provisions contained in Art. 22	None
(4) (a) so that they may be given the benefit of an advisory boards opinion.	None
His grievance is that in doing so the amended statute has enlarged the period of three months provided under Art.	None
22 (4) for a report of the advisory board and has extended the period of one year mentioned in S. 12 of Act IV 4 of 1950.	None
This argument is based on the assumption that the period of one year mentioned in S. 12 of Act IV 4 of 1950 was an immutable and unalterable one and that Parliament could not amend S. 12 of the Act in any manner whatsoever once having enacted it.	None
I am unable to accept ibis contention.	None
It seems to me, that it was open to parliament to amend S. 12 and substitute another maximum for the period of one year mentioned therein.	None
If Parliament had recourse to that alternative, then in my opinion, the petitioners could have no possible grievance as regards the vires of the new legislation.	None
As regards the period of three months, it was essential to fix some date from which that period had to be calculated in respect of cases which were previously governed by S. 12 of Act IV 4 of 1950.	None
Under that section they did not have the benefit of the advisory board and when the new law gave them that benefit, aterminus quohad to be fixed for the period of three months during which the advisory board had to Submit its report.	None
The amended Act achieved this by prescribing in these specified Classes of cases the date of the commencement of the amended Act as the date from which this period was to begin and by S. 12 it provided that all detentions continuing at the date of the commencement of the amended Act shall be deemed to be detentions under the amended Act.21.	None
After a careful consideration of the argument of Mr. Nambiar, I have reached the conclusion that there is considerable farce in the reply made to it by the learned AttorneyGeneral.	None
He contended that Art. 22 (4) provides that no law providing for preventive detention shall authorize detention of a person for a longer period than three months and that the amended Act has not in any manner infringed this provision on the other hand, it provides that the advisory board must make its report to the Govt.	None
within ten weeks.	None
It was argued that in order to Judge the vires of the amended Act it was not relevant to take into consideration detention of persons validly detained under a different statute and that its vires must be adjudged on its own provisions and not with reference to what has actually happened under another law.	None
It was frankly conceded that if Parliament or a State legislature passed legislation in a manner which amounted to a fraud on the Constitution inasmuch as those enactments were passed with the purpose of defeating the constitutional provisions, then three laws could be attacked on that ground but not on the grounds of their vires that in the present case no such argument had been taken or could be taken and that being so, the contention of Mr. Nambiar was not justified.22.	None
In my opinion, the statute as framed does not in any way contravene or abridge either the provisions of Art. 21 or of Art. 22.	None
It was open to Parliament, as already observed, to alter the maximum period of detention mentioned in S. 12 of Act IV 4 of 1950 and to enhance it.	None
It was also open to Govt.	None
to release these detenus after the expiry of one year and to serve fresh orders of detention on them after their release under the amended Act.	None
If that had been done, no question could possibly be raised that the period of three months provided for in Art. 22 (4) of the Constitution had in any way been affected.	None
Instead of going through that form of ceremony, Parliament by S. 12 of the amended Act provided that all detention orders in force under Act IV 4 of 1950 be treated as detention orders under the amended Act.	None
By the effect of this section the detention of all such persons becomes a fresh detention under the new law, with the result that nothing it the amended statute can be said to abridge the fundamental, right conferred by Art.	None
22 (4) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the amended statute is not a new and an independent statute and that in spite of the amendments it remains the same statute as was passed in 1950, and that the detention of the petitioners is under the same law of preventive detention and it therefore offends against Art.	None
22 (4) of the Constitution and that it virtually amounts to tacking of the period of detention under one Act to the period of detention under another Act and as such amounts indirectly and substantially to an infringement of the fundamental right.	None
In my opinion, this contention, though attractive, is without force.	None
Technically speaking, an amended statute remains the same statute as originally enacted but from that proposition it does not follow that the law contained in the amended statute is the same law as was contained in the original one.	None
S. 9 of the original Act has been substituted by S. 9 of the amended Act and declares a new law and it is not a reenactment of the law as was contained in the earlier statute.	None
S. 12 of the original statute has been completely repealed and no longer exists.	None
The law declared by that section has been abrogated.	None
The law declared by S. 12 of the amended Act is in the nature of and substituted provision.	None
It seems to me that the law declared by the amended statute is not the same law as was declared by the original statute and to that extent the amended statute is in the nature of a new and independent statute.	None
The petitioners are being detained today by force of the provisions contained in Ss. 9 and 12 of the amended Act and not under the law that was passed in 1950, as by repeal of S.12 of that Act their detention under it technically terminated.	None
The new law admittedly standing by itself does not authorize detention of any person beyond a period of three months except in the manner provided by Art.	None
22 (4) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
No question whatever arises of tacking of the period of detention under one law to the period of detention under another law, inasmuch as the detention under the earlier law automatically terminates with the repeal of S. 12 of Act IV 4 of 1950.	None
For the reasons given above, the first contention of Mr. Nambiar fails.23.	None
In view of the above decision, it is unnecessary to consider the alternative argument of the learned AttorneyGeneral to the effect that in case it is held that S. 9 contravenes Art.	None
22 (4) (a) of the Constitution, it is and valid law under Art.	None
22 (4) (b) of the Constitution and hence the order of detention is legal.	None
Mr. Namiber Contention to the effect that in case the petitioners detention is regarded as and fresh detention under the amended Act, then it is necessary to serve them with fresh grounds of detention does not appear to me to be well founded.	None
The point was not raised in the petitions and no argument was addressed to us that any right under Art.	None
22 (5) had been infringed.	None
Moreover, as at present advised, I think the contention has not got much force because of the Clear provisions of S. 12 of the amended Act which treats every detention order having force at the commencement of the amended Act as being deemed to continue under it.	None
When detention is not on any fresh grounds but on grounds already served, any default in observing the formality of again serving those very grounds on the detenue cannot be said to be an infringement of the fundamental right under Art.	None
22 (5) of the Constitution.24.	Arguments of Petitioner
The next contention of Mr. Nambiar that Parliament having fixed the maximum period of detention in S. 12 of Act IV 4 of 1950 under its powers contained in Art. 22 (7) of the Constitution, that maximum became a part of the content of fundamental rights and Ss. 9 and 12 of the amended Act contravene this fundamental right inasmuch as these authorize detention of the petitioners for a period beyond one year again, in my opinion, is not sound.	None
In other words, the argument of the learned counsel amounts to this, that as soon as Parliament by law under Art. 22	None
(7) prescribed a maximum period for which any person may be detained under any law providing for preventive detention, then that period becomes a part of the fundamental right conferred on a person under Part III of the Constitution.	None
The only method of adding to or subtracting from those rights is by an amendment of the Constitution in the manner provided therein.	None
By Cl.	None
(7) of Art.	None
22, Parliament has not been auhorized to add to the fundamental rights.	None
The contention of the learned counsel is based on an erroneous assumption that Art. 22 in Cl.	None
(7) confers a fundamental right on a person in its true concept it restricts to a certain degree the measure of the fundamental right contained in Cl.	None
(4) (a) of the Article.25.	None
The argument that Parliament has no authority to alter the period of one year prescribed by it under Art. 22 (7) (b) of the Constitution is again founded on an erroneous assumption that the Clause confers legislative power on Parliament.	Arguments of Petitioner
The ambit of the legislative powers of Parliament is continued in Art.	None
245 of the Constitution read with the entries in Sch.	None
7.	None
Art.	None
22 of the Constitution restricts those powers to a certain extent.	None
It does not enlarge them.	None
Cl.	None
(7), however, cuts down these restrictions to a Certain extent.	None
Parliament having power to make the law has also the power to alter or amend it, if it so chooses.	None
It is difficult to assent to the proposition of the learned counsel that if a person is detained according to a law that existed at the time of his detention, then in regard to him it is that and that law alone which matters and any change in the law, even if it has retrospective effect cannot effect him any manner whatever.26.	None
The next point canvassed before us was that the Constitution does not envisage detention for an indefinite period that it is obligatory on Parliament to provide a maximum period for detention of a person under a law of preventive detention.	None
In my opinion, this argument again is not sound.	None
Emphasis was laid on the proviso to Art.	None
22 (4) (a) which enacts that nothing in the SubClause shall authorize the detention of any person beyond the maximum period prescribed by any law made by Parliament under SubCl.	None
(b) of Cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(7), and it was urged that the word may in Art. 22 (7) must be read in the sense of must and as having a compulsory force inasmuch as the enactment authorizes Parliament to prescribe by law a maximum period for detention, for the advancement of justice and for public good, or for the benefit of persons subjected to preventive detention.	None
Reference was made to Maxwell on Interpretation of Statutes (9th Edn., page 246) and to the wellknown case of Julius v. Bishop of Oxford,(1880) 5 A. C. 214.	None
Lord Cairns in that case observed as followsWhere a power is deposited with a public officer for the purpose of being used for the benefit of persons that power ought to be exercised.	None
In my opinion, Cl.	None
(7) of Art.	None
22 as already pointed out, in its true concept to a certain degree restricts the measure of the fundamental right contained in Cl.	None
(4) (a) and in this context the rule referred to by Maxwell has no application whatever.	None
Moreover, the provision in the Constitution is merely an enabling one and it is well settled that in an enabling Act words of a permissive nature cannot be given a compulsory meaning (Vide Craies on Statute Law, p. 254).	None
Be that as it may, the point is no longer open as it has been concluded by the majority decision in Gopalans case,1950 S. C. R. 88.	None
The learned Chief Justice at p. 119 of the report observed as followsSubCl.(b) is permissive.	None
It is not obligatory on the Parliament to prescribe any maximum period.	None
It was argued that this gives the Parliament a right to allow a person to be detained indefinitely.	None
If that construction is correct, it springs out of the words of SubCl.	None
(7) itself and the Court cannot help in the matter.	None
Nothing said by Mr. Nambiar is sufficient to persuade me to take a different view of the matter than was taken in Gopalans case,1950 S. C. R. 88.	None
It may be pointed out that Parliament may well have thought that it was unnecessary to fix any maximum period of detention in the new statute which was of a temporary nature and whose own tenure of life was limited to one year.	None
Such temporary statutes cease to have any effect after they expire, they automatically come to an end at the expiry of the period for which they have been enacted and nothing further can be done under them.	None
The detention of the petitioners, therefore is bound to come to an end automatically with the life of the statute and in these circumstances Parliament may well have thought that it would be wholly unnecessary to legislate and provide a maximum period of detention for those detained under this law.27.	None
The last point argued by Mr. Nambiar that the provisions of the amended Act contravene the provisions of Art. 21 of the Constitution does not impress me.	None
The expression procedure established by law was considered by the majority in Gopalans case,1950 S. C. R. 88 as meaning procedure prescribed by law.	None
The petitioners have been detained in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the amended statute and their detention, therefore, is in accordance with procedure prescribed by law.	None
The contention of Mr. Nambiar that they are governed by the procedure contained in S. 12 of Act Iv 4) of 1950 as that was the procedure at the time when initially they were detained is, in my opinion, unsound.	None
It is open to Parliament to change the procedure by enacting and law and that procedure becomes the procedure established by law within the meaning of that expression in Art. 21 of the Constitution.	None
Further, the present detention of the petitioners being by virtue of s. 12 of the amended Act a new detention under the amended Act, the procedure prescribed by the amended Act is the procedure established by law within the meaning of Art. 21.28.	None
For the reasons given above, in my opinion, the Preventive Detention Amendment Act, 1951 is a valid statute and the provisions impugned by Mr. Nambiar do not contravene the Constitution and the petitioners are not entitled to their release merely on the ground that the period of one year mentioned in S. 12 of Act Iv 4 of 1950 has expired.29.	None
On the merits of the petitions, it was urged (1) that the grounds supplied to then were vague and insufficient to enable them to make a proper representation a (2) that their detention was mala fide and on political and party considerations.	None
There is no force whatever in these contentions.30.	None
The result is that all these petitions are dismissed and the rules are discharged.	Decision
This order will have force in the case of petitioners who have so far not been released by Govt.	Decision
S R. Das J.31.	None
I agree that the petitions should be dismissed and I do so substantially on the grounds stated by my learned brother Mahajan.	None
Bose J.32.	None
With the utmost respect I am unable to accept the majority view.	None
In my judgment, s. 11 (1) of the amending Act is ultra vires.	None
The ground on which I hold it to be so was suggested by me in the course of the arguments.	None
It was, however, not very fully dealt with possibly because I expressed my view at a late stage and possibly because I did so somewhat sketchily.	None
But as I am sloughing a lonely furrow, that fortunately, will not much matter.33.	None
Arts.	None
21 and 22 confer the fundamental right of personal liberty.	None
The first is general and as the meaning of the words procedure established by law has been thoroughly discussed in Gopalans case, 1950 S. C. R. 88, I do not intend to cover that ground.	None
But so far as Art. 22 (4) is concerned, my opinion is that it confers and fundamental right not to be kept under preventive detention beyond a certain period.	None
The extent of that period can very	None
but it can only be extended beyond three months within certain fixed limits and subject to specified conditions.34.	None
Article 246 read with item 9 in List I and item 3 in List III of Sch.	None
7 confers jurisdiction upon the Union Parliament and the State Legislatures to make laws for preventive detention, but Art.	None
22	None
(4) imposes restrictions.	None
It says thatNo law providing for preventive detention shall authorise the detention of a person for a longer period than three months,unless certain conditions are fulfilled.35.	Arguments of Petitioner
The conditions are set out in Subcl.	None
(a) and Subcl.	None
(b).	Reasoning
Under the former, a law can provide for preventive detention over three months provided (1) there is an Advisory Board of a certain character, (2) the Board is of opinion that there is sufficient cause for longer detention, and (3) the Board reports before the expiration of the three months.	None
Then follows a further restriction which is contained in the proviso to SubCl.	None
(4), This states that Nothing in this SubClause shall authorise the detention of any person beyond the maximum period prescribed by any law made by Parliament under Sub cl.	None
(b) of cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(7).Subcl.	None
(b) of cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(7) reads as follows (7) Parliament may by law, prescribe  (b) the maximum period for which any person may in any Class or Classes of cases be detained under any law providing for preventive detention.36.	None
The second set of conditions is given in Subcl.	None
(b) of cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(4).	Reasoning
This sets out that a person can also be detained beyond three months provided such person is detained in accordance with the provisions of any law made by Parliament under Subcls.	None
(a) and (b) of cl.	Reasoning
(7).I venture to underline the and because, in my opinion, a lot turns on it.	None
But I shall deal with that later.37.	None
Subcl.	None
(a) of cl.	Reasoning
(7) empowers Parliament to prescribeThe circumstances under which, and the Class or Classes of cases in which, a person may be detained for a period longer than three months under any law providing for preventive detention without obtaining the opinion of an Advisory Board in accordance with the provisions of subcl (a) of cl, (4).38.	Arguments of Petitioner
In my opinion, these provisions confer a fundamental right not to be detained beyond a certain period.	None
The extent of that period can vary but the maximum period of detention cannot exceed certain fixed limits.	None
These limits are, (a) in the first instance, three months if not, (b) the maximum prescribed by Parliament under Cl.	None
(7) (b).	None
In my opinion, no law can be made authorising detention either under Cl.	None
(4) (a) or (4) (b) unless a maximum period of detention is prescribed by Parliament under cl. 7 (b).39.	None
I do not agree with the contention that the word may in Cl.	None
(7) means must.	None
I am not prepared to depart from the usual meaning of words unless compelled to do so for over whelming reasons.	None
In my opinion, Parliament is free to prescribe or not to prescribe a maximum period under Cl.	None
(7) (b).	None
It cannot be compelled to do so.	None
But equally neither Parliament nor a State Legislature is compelled to authorise preventive detention beyond three months.	None
If, however, either wishes to do so, then it is bound to conform to the provisions of either SubCl.(a) or SubCl.	None
(b) of cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(4) or both and in the case of Subcl.	None
(a) the proviso is as much a part of the SubClause as its main provision.	None
If no maximum limit is fixed under cl.	None
(7) (b), then the proviso cannot operate and if it cannot operate, no legislative action can, in my opinion, be taken under cl.	None
(4) (a).	None
If A is told by B that he may go to a Bank and withdraw a sum of money not exceeding such limit as may be fixed by c, it is evident that until C fixes the limit no money can be withdrawn, C cannot be compelled to fix a limit but if he chooses not to do so, the money cannot be withdrawn.	None
Equally, if A is told that he may withdraw money not exceeding a limit which he himself may fix, there can, in my opinion, be no right of withdrawal until he fixes the limit.40.	None
Look at it another way.	None
A British General is told by the Indian Govt.	None
that he may travel from India to Burma quickly and easily by plane.	None
He is also told that he may in addition drive by car over the bills and through the jungles provided he does not go beyond the confines of any road made by the Burmese Govt.	None
and the Burmese Govt.	None
is told that it may, if it so chooses, put in road at Indias expense.	None
It is fairly obvious that the Burmese Govt.	None
is not bound to make the road and it is equally obvious that under these conditions the General will not be able to go by car unless the road is made.41.	None
I realise that analogies are often inaccurate and may be misleading.	None
But these examples serve to illustrate the line of my reasoning.	None
In my opinion, the Constitution (a) tells the State Legislatures that they may legislate for preventive detention beyond three months but not beyond a limit which Parliament may fix and (b) tells parliament that Parliament itself may do the same thing provided the detention does not exceed a maximum which it may itself fix.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no need to fix a maximum in either event but if that is not done, then there can be no legislation under Cl. 4 (a).	None
Until the road is built there is no right of way.42.	None
The same limitation attaches to Cl.	None
(4) (b).	None
Legislative action cannot be taken under this unless, first, the law is made by Parliament and second, it is made under SubCls.	None
(a) and (b) of Cl.	Reasoning
(7).	Reasoning
I again venture to underline the and because, in my opinion, and means and should mean and unless there is compelling reason to make it mean or.	None
To my mind, not only is there no compelling reason here but, on the contrary, there are powerful reasons why it should be construed in its usual and normal sense.	None
The reasons are these.43.	None
Articles 21 and 22 confer a fundamental right and give a fundamental guarantee.	None
It is, therefore, the duty of the Court to see that the right is kept fundamental and that the fullest scope is given to the guarantee.	None
It is our duty to ensure that the right and the guarantee are not rendered illusory and meaningless.	None
Therefore wherever there is scope for difference of opinion on a matter of interpretation in this behalf, the interpretation which favours the Subject must always be used because the right has been conferred upon him and it is the right which has been made fundamental, not the fetters and limitations with which it may be circumscribed by legislative action.	None
It is true the full scope and content of the right cannot be determined without examining the boundaries within which it is to be confined, and I agree that in interpreting these provisions equal weight must be given to all the Clauses also that no one part can be treated with greater sanctity than the rest.	None
But if, when all that is done, doubt still remains, then the doubt must, in my judgment, be resolved in favour of the Subject and not of the State.44.	None
Brush aside for a moment the pettifogging of the law and forget for the none all the learned disputations about this and that, and and or or, or may and must.	None
Look past the mere verbiage of the words and penetrate deep into the heart and spirit of the Constitution.	None
What sort of State are we intended to be?	None
Have we not here been given a way of life, the right to individual freedom, the utmost the State can confer in that respect consistent with its own safety?	None
Is not the sanctity of the individual recognised and emphasised again and again?	None
Is not our Constitution in violent contrast to those of States where the State is everything and the individual but a slave or a serf to serve the will of those who for the time being wield almost absolute power ?	None
I have no doubts on this score.	None
I hold it, therefore, to be our duty, when there is ambiguity or doubt about the construction of any Clause in this chapter on Fundamental Rights, to resolve it in favour of the freedoms which have been so solemnly stressed.	None
Read the magnificent sweep of the preamble	None
We the people of India, having solemnly resolved to constitute India into Sovereign Democratic Republic and to secure to all its citizens Justice, Liberty, Equality Fraternity.	None
Read the provisions of the chapter on Fundamental RightsAll citizens shall have the right etc.	None
No person shall be deprived of his life of personal liberty except according to procedure established by law.	None
No person who is arrested shall be detained in custody without etc No law providing for preventive detention shall authorise etc, unless45.	None
Read the provisions which circumscribe the powers of Parliament and prevent it from being supreme.	None
What does it all add up to?	None
How can it be doubted that the stress throughout is on the freedoms conferred and that the limitations placed on them are but regrettable necessities?46.	None
I do not doubt that in constructing the Constitution we must do so according to all the usual well recognised canons of construction.	None
I do not doubt that when the language is plain full effect must be given to it whatever the implications.	None
All I insist on is that when there is ambiguity or doubt and it is possible to take either this view or that, then we must come down on the side of liberty and freedom and I err in good company in so holding.	None
Lord Romer said as much in Liversidge v. Anderson,1942 A. C. 206 at p. 280 though he made an exception in the case of war legislation.	None
How can it be said that in this ease there is no ambiguity and that there is no room for doubt?	None
When l am asked to hold that and means or and that may means must, how can it be said that there is no room for difference of opinion ?	None
When I am told thatno law providing for preventive.	None
detention shall authorise the detention of a person for a longer period than three months.	None
Unless there is an Advisory Board etc., and even then not beyondthe maximum period prescribed by any law made by Parliament under SubCl.	None
(b) of Cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(7),How can it he said that there is no doubt about the intention and that this Clearly and unambiguously means that the detention can be for an indefinite period even under a State law if Parliament does not choose to act under Cl.	None
(7) (b)?	None
To my mind, there is ambiguity and there is room for doubt.47.	None
I feel that the people of India chose for themselves the free way of life and that they entrusted to Parliament, which represents their will, the duty of satisfying itself that any limitations hereafter to be placed on the freedoms conferred are necessary and essential and that these limitations will not exceed such limits as Parliament itself shall determine solemnly and deliberately, after anxious scrutiny and dutiful care.	None
I cannot bring myself to believe that the framers of our Constitution intended that the liberties guaranteed should be illusory and meaningless or that they could be toyed with by this person or that.	None
They did not bestow on the people of India a cold, lifeless, inert mass of malleable Clay but created a living organism, breathed life into it and endowed it with purpose and vigour so that it should grow healthily and sturdily in the democratic way of life, which is the free way.	None
In the circumstances, I prefer to decide in favour of the freedom of the Subject.48.	None
I am not hampered here by considerations of war necessity or emergency legislation where some authorities hold that the canons of construction are different and that allowance must be made in favour of the State for the imperfections of language used in legislation which had to be drafted and enacted in a desperate hurry with the State in dire and immediate peril.	None
I am construing a Constitution which was hammered out solemnly and deliberately after the most mature consideration and with the most anxious care.	None
I feel bound, therefore, when there is ambiguity or doubt, to resolve it in favour of what I conceive to be the free way of a Sovereign Democratic Republic.	None
After all, who framed the Constitution and for whose benefit was it made ?	None
not just for those in brief authority, not only for lawyers and dialecticians but for the common people of India.	None
It should, therefore, be construed, when that can be done without doing violence to the language employed, in a simple straightforward way so that it makes sense to the man in the street, so that the common people of the land can follow and understand its meaning.	None
To my mind, the whole concept of the Constitution is that after years of bitter struggle the citizens of India are assured that certain liberties shall be guaranteed to them and that these liberties shall not be curtailed beyond limits which they and all the world can know and which can only be fixed by the highest authority in the land, Parliament itself, directly and specifically after affording opportunity for due deliberation in that august body.	None
I would struggle hard against any interpretation which permitted evasion of those important limitations and which permitted those hardwon liberties to be curtailed by some accidental side wind which allows virtual delegation of the responsibility for fixing the maximum limits which Parliament is empowered to fix, to some lesser authority, and worse, for fixing themad hocin each individual case, for that, in my opinion, is what actually happens, whatever the technical name, when Parliament fixes no maximum and lesser authorities are left free to decide in each case how long the individual should be detained.	None
I am Clear that these are not matters which should be viewed technically or narrowly but in the broad and liberal spirit in which they were conceived.	None
Bearing this in mind, I will proceed to examine the impugned provisions of the amending Act.49.	None
In my judgment, S. 9 is good because it confers a benefit and a privilege.	None
It takes away nothing.	None
It gives all detenus the right to go before an Advisory Board for review of their cases.	None
It confers this right not only on those who may be detained in the future but also on those already under detention.	None
And further, it confers this right on those who had no such right before.	None
This is not an infringement of any fundamental right nor does it contravene any article of the Constitution, therefore, Parliament was free to legislate as it pleased regarding that.	None
It was free artificially to alter the starting point of the order of detention which is that it has done in Subs.	None
2 (a).	None
That section, in my judgment, is intra vires.50.	None
So also is new S. 12 which continues in force existing detentions despite the expiry of the old Act and states that the passing of the new Act shall not affect either the validity or duration of orders passed under the old Act.	None
It will be remembered that the detentions we are considering in these cases were good under the old Act.	None
That Act prescribed a maximum limit, namely one year, for this Class of detention.	None
In my opinion, Parliament had the right to say in this particular manner for the purpose of removing doubts, that detentions already in force under that Act should Continue in force for the maximum period already prescribed.	None
That, to my mind, is the force of the words continue, validity and duration.	None
That would have been the result in any event but S. 12 is there to remove possible doubts.51.	None
Section 11 (2) is also good because here again a benefit is conferred.	None
Detenus who had no right to release on the advice of an Advisory Board are here given this privilege.	None
Therefore, this is also intra vires.	None
But Sub s. (1) is, to my mind, ultra vires.	None
It is here that we find an infringement of Art. 22 (4).	None
It reads In any case where the Advisory Board has reported that there is in its opinion sufficient cause for the detention of a person, the appropriate Govt.	None
may confirm the detention order and continue the detention of the person concerned for such period as it thinks fit.	None
This is word for word the same as S. 11 of the old Act.	None
It does not prescribe maximum limit.52.	None
Now S. 11 replaces Ss.11 and 12 of the old Act.	None
The amending Act directs that new S. 11 be substituted for old Ss. 11 and 12.	None
Old S. 12 had prescribed a maximum limit of one year in certain Classes of cases.	None
That is done away within the new Act.	None
As regards the rest, neither the old Act nor the new prescribes any limit for other Classes of detention.	None
That, in my opinion, not only contravenes Art. 22	None
(4) but in effect shifts the responsibility for prescribing a maximum to the executive authorities at each State	None
and allows them to do itad hocin each case.	None
I am not speaking technically at the moment.	None
I am viewing it broadly as the man in the street would.	None
I am placing myself in the position of the detenus and looking at it through his eyes.	None
The niceties of the law do not matter to him.	None
He does not care about grammar.	None
All that matters to him is that he is behind the bars and that Parliament has not fixed any limit in his kind of case and that local authorities tell him that they have the right in say how long he shall remain under detention.	None
I cannot bring myself to think that this was intended by the Constitution.	None
The powers given to Parliament are ample.	None
The safeguards for the safety of the State are all there.	None
In the last resort, immediate action can be taken under the emergency provisions.	None
Therefore, when Parliament and the State Legislatures are told that they cannot authorise preventive detention beyond three months unless Parliament does this and that, I am at opinion that the responsibility to do these things is on Parliament itself and that in this particular matter there can be no delegation of authority.	None
The Constituent Assembly has entrusted this particular matter to the care of Parliament itself and has made this Parliaments special responsibility.	None
The country is, therefore, entitled to receive the benefit of the mature judgment, wisdom and patriotism, of that august body.53.	None
I am not doubting Parliaments general powers of delegation.	None
But, in my opinion, these powers are circumscribed and each dose must be judged upon its own circumstances.	None
As this matter is under consideration in another case and as mine is a dissenting voice here, all I need say in this case is that in my judgment this is not one of the matters which can be delegated.54.	None
It was said that all this is irrelevant because a maximum limit has in fact been fixed in the present instance.	None
It was argued that the life of this Act has only been fixed for one year and that the life of the old Act was also only one year and that this in effect fixes a maximum.	None
I am aware that there is high authority for this view and I venture to dissent with the utmost reluctance, but with the greatest respect I find myself unable to agree.55.	None
In the first place, I cannot agree that the maximum limit which Parliament is authorised to fix can be fixed in this indirect way.	None
What Parliament is empowered to do under Art. 7 (b) is to prescribethe maximum period for which any person may in any Class or Classes of cases be detained.	None
It cannot do this by saying that no person shall be detained beyond is 262 1952 because that means that persons arrested on 2721951 can be kept under detention for a year while those arrested on 2521952 can only be detained for one day.	None
That, in my judgment, is not what is meant by prescribing and maximum period.56.	None
In the next place, when Parliament is authorised to do this, it is expected to do so consciously and deliberately after giving the matter due and mature consideration.	None
It is not possible to say that Parliament had this provision in mind and intended to act under it when it merely fixed the duration of the Act.	None
Had the matter been properly discussed and placed before Parliament in the way it should have been, it is conceivable that it might have considered that the maximum period of detention should not exceed, say, six months though the duration of the Act should be one year.	None
In other words, that persons could continue to be arrested so long as the Act was in force but they could not be kept under detention for more than six months.	None
With the utmost respect, I cannot agree that functions so solemnly entrusted to the care of Parliament under these fundamental Clauses can be discharged unconsciously.57.	None
In the third place, I cannot agree that these detentions would come to an end with the expiry of the Act.	None
The rule in the case of temporary Acts is thatAs a general rule, and unless it contains some special provision to the contrary, alter a temporary Act has expired no proceedings can be taken upon it, and it ceases in have any further effect.	None
Therefore, offences committed against temporary Acts must be prosecuted and punished before the Act expires.	None
(Craies on Statute Law, Edn. 4 p. 347).58.	None
But transactions which are concluded and complete before the Act expires continue in being despite the expiry.	None
See Craies on Statute Law, p. 348 and 31 Halsburys Laws of England (Hailsham Edition)	None
p. 513.	None
I take this to mean that if a man is tried for an offence created by a temporary Act and is found guilty and sentenced to, say, live years imprisonment, he would have to serve his term even if the Act were to expire the next day.	None
In my opinion, the position is the same in the case of detentions.	None
A man, who is arrested under and temporary detention Act and validly ordered to be detained for a particular period, would not be entitled to Claim release before his time just because the Act expired earlier.59.	None
Then again, the Act we are considering has special provision to the contrary.	None
S. 11 (1) empowers either a State or the Union Govt.	None
to order the detention of a person for such period as it thinks fit.	None
It this provision is not ultra vires, then the Act in express terms permits the appropriate Govt.	None
to order a detention which shall endure beyond the life of the Act itself, and unless the fundamental provisions of the Constitution can be called in aid, there is nothing to prevent Parliament from enacting such a law.	None
Therefore, the mere fact that the Act under consideration is to expire on 2621952 does not, in my opinion, mean that detentions under it must necessarily come to an end on that date.	None
That in turn means that no maximum period has been prescribed ever indirectly.60.	None
Looked straight in the face, what does the decision of the majority upholding the validity of S. 11 (1) import if it is pushed to its logical conclusion ?	None
To me it spells just this.	None
The Constitution tells all persons resident in the land Here is the full extent of your liberty so far as the length of detention is concerned.	None
We guarantee that you will not be detained beyond three months unless Parliament otherwise directs, either generally or in your particular Class of case but we empower Parliament to smash the guarantee absolutely if it so chooses without let or hindrance, without restriction.	None
Though we authorise Parliament to prescribe a maximum limit of detention if it so chooses, we place no compulsion on it to do so and we authorise it to pass legislation which will empower any person or authority Parliament chooses to name, right down to a police constable, to arrest you and detain you as long as he pleases, for the duration of your life if he wants, so that you may linger and not in jail till you die, as did men in the Bastille.	None
61.	None
In the absence of restrictions Parliament undoubtedly has these powers, for it can legislate about preventive detention.	None
But if you remove the restrictions, what is left of the fundamental right?	None
My concept of a fundamental right is something which Parliament cannot touch save by an amendment of the Constitution.	None
The full content of the right can be as small at as narrow as you please	None
but unless there is a residue which can answer that test, there is to my mind nothing fundamental.	None
New I have no doubt that a fundamental right regarding the length at detention was intended to be conferred.	None
It would be pointless to make the provision about three months and place it in the chapter on Fundamental Rights if that were not so so also there would be no point in the elaborate provisions regarding this in Cls.	None
(4) and (7).	None
A simple Clause saying that no detention shall exceed three months unless Parliament otherwise directs would have met the case.	None
It is, therefore, Clear to my mind that something fundamental regarding the length of detention which Parliament could not touch save by amendment of the Constitution was intended to be conferred.	None
But if S. 11 (1) is upheld, what is there left which is beyond the reach of Parliament?	None
Parliament has here in effect said that there need be no general limit to the duration of detentions and that lesser authorities can fix the duration in each individual case and are free to detain for as long as they please.	None
If that is so, then what is there left of anything fundamental regarding the maximum length of detention?	None
To my mind, the whole object of the elaborate provisions in Cls.	None
(4) and (7) is to place restraints on powers regarding the length of indefinite and arbitrary detentions which would otherwise be absolute.62.	None
For these reasons, I am of opinion that S. 11 (1) is ultra vires.	None
My only hesitation has been on the score of Gopalans case.	None
I have searched long and anxiously to see whether this question is concluded there and whether my hands are tied After considerable study of the decision, I have reached the conclusion that I am not bound.63.	None
There were six Judges there.	None
The present Act, the amending Act of 1951, was not under consideration, but S. 11 of the old Act, which corresponds to S. 11 (1) of the new, was considered.	None
But only two Judges, namely, my Lord the Chief Justice and my brother Mahajan, dealt with this section directly.	None
Their views are directly counter to mine.	None
They expressly hold that s. 11 of the old Act is intra vires.	None
That means that S.11(1) of the present Act would also have to be upheld on their view.	None
But the other four Judges did not discuss the vires of S. 11 at all.	None
They concentrated their attention on Ss. 12 and 14 of the old Act.	None
It is true my brother Das made a general observation at the end of his judgment that in his view the impugned Act is valid law except as to S. 14 but he did not expressly consider S. 11.	None
In the circumstances, I do not think Gopalans case concludes the matter.64.	None
It is perhaps ironical that I should struggle to uphold these freedoms in favour of a Class of persons who, if rumour is to be accredited and if the list of their activities furnished to us is a true guide, would be the first to destroy them if they but had the power.	None
But I cannot allow personal predilections to sway my judgment of the Constitution As Lord Justice Scrutton remarked in Rex v. Home Secretary,(1923) 92 L. J. K. B. 797It is, indeed, one test of belief in principles if you apply them to cases with which you have no sympathy at alland as Holmes J. of the United States Supreme Court said, speaking of the American Constitution,If there is any principle of the Constitution that more imperatively, calls for attachment than any other it is the principle of tree thought not free thought for those who agree with us but freedom for the thought that we hate.65.	None
I respectfully dissent from the majority view and consider that S. 11 (1) is ultra vires.	None
It follows, on my view, that the present detentions are bad.	None
I am of opinion that the petitioners in these cases are entitled to immediate release.66.	None
Petitions dismissed.	None
