 B. Sinha, J. INTRODUCTION Interpretation of Section 29 visvis Section 31 of the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951 (for short the Act) is in question in these appeals which arise out of a judgment and order dated 26.03.2003 passed by a Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court in Writ Petition Nos. 37209 37907 of 2000, 24452 of 2001, 13354 and 16614 of 2002.	Issue
FACTUAL BACKDROP2.	Facts
Respondents herein furnished sureties and or guarantees in respect of the loans taken by the industrial concerns (Respondent  Company)3.	Facts
We may notice the fact of the matter from the case of AP Rocks Private Limited (Writ Petition No. 37209 and 30907 of 2000) before the High Court.	Facts
AP Rocks Private Limited is an industrial concern.	Facts
It approached the appellant  Corporation for grant of loan in the form of nonconvertible debenture facility to the extent of 100 lakhs to meet its working capital requirements.	Facts
Respondents who were Directors of Company executed deeds of guarantee dated 15.05.1996 and 9.08.1996 agreeing to guarantee repayment redemption by the Company to the Corporation of the said nonconvertible debenture subscription together with interest, etc.	Facts
The said Company also executed a deed of hypothecation on or about 9.08.1996 whereby and whereunder its plants and machinery were hypothecated.	Facts
A collateral security agreement was also executed by Shri S.K. Rajan wherefor a property bearing No. 49, House List Khata No. 100A, Hennarayanapalya, Hemlet of Cholanayakamahalli, Kasba Hobli, Bangalore North Taluka was mortgaged as a security therefor.	Facts
Respondent No. 1 executed an agreement on 15.05.1996 in terms whereof his property bearing Site No. 55 (old), New No. 59, Annammadevi Temple Extension, Subedar Chatram Road, B.C. C. Division No. 22, Bangalore was given as a collateral security.	Facts
The Industrial Concern allegedly committed defaults.	Facts
PROCEEDINGS4.	Facts
Appellant  Corporation on or about 20.11.2000 in exercise of its power under Section 29 of the Act directed that the possession of the said two properties of the guarantors be taken over.	Facts
Respondent No. 1 and Shri S.K. Rajan filed writ petitions before the Karnataka High Court on the premise that the appellant  corporation could not have proceeded against the guarantors under Section 29 of the Act.	Facts
The High Court by reason of the impugned judgment while upholding the said contention directed The impugned orders passed by the Karnataka State Financial Corporation under Section 29 of the State Financial Corporations Act authorizing its officers to take possession of the properties of petitioners are quashed.(ii)	Facts
The Karnataka State Financial Corporation is directed not to proceed against the property of the surety, mortgaged hypothecated in its favour, under Section 29 of the State Financial Corporations Act.(iii)	Facts
Parties to bear their respective costs.	None
Appellant is, thus, before us.	None
SUBMISSIONS Mr. K.K. Venugopal, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, submitted the High Court committed a serious error in passing the impugned judgment in so far as it failed to take into consideration that the second part of Section 29 of the Act being an independent provision and having not referred to an industrial concern, it was within the jurisdiction of the appellant to take possession of the said property also.(ii) Section 29 of the Act confers two independent rights, viz., taking over of the mortgaged property and sale of the mortgaged, hypothecated and charged property.	Arguments of Petitioner
Whereas first part of Section 29 of the Act covers taking over possession and or management of the mortgaged property, the second part thereof covers the case of sale of the property mortgaged, irrespective of the fact as to whether the same belonged to the industrial concern or not.(iii) Section 29 having taken within its umbrage security and or guarantee, the legislative intent being speedy recovery of the dues, the same includes the power to take possession of the mortgaged property of the guarantor also, being incidental to the main power and or implied power of the Corporation.(iv) Section 31 confers the same benefit to the Corporation with an additional remedy, viz., to pray for an interlocutory order.(v) Section 69(c) of the Transfer of Property Act also confers power upon the mortgagee to sale the charged property privately wherefor taking over of possession being not a prerequisite, the High Court committed a serious error in coming to the conclusion that before a property is to be sold, taking over possession thereof is mandatory.(vi) Section 31 of the Act would be applicable only when the loan is called back in terms of Section 30 of the Act.(vii) Special statutory power having been conferred on the Corporation so as to enable it to recover its debts which serves a larger economic interest of the country, Sections 29 and 31 of the Act should be interpreted in such a manner which would help it to achieve the said purpose.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Vikas Rojipura, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents, on the other hand, submitted It is wrong to contend that similar reliefs can be claimed both under Sections 29 and 31 of the Act as in that event it was not necessary for the Parliament to enact two different provisions.(ii)	Arguments of Respondent
Clause (aa) of Subsection (1) of Section 31 of the Act, which was inserted by Act No. 43 of 1985 with effect from 21.08.1985, clearly establishes that the purport and object of two sections are absolutely distinct and separate.(iii)	Arguments of Respondent
Sections 29 and 31 confer two different rights on the corporation which are independent of each other.	Arguments of Respondent
Whereas Section 29 provides for a limited remedy, Section 31 provides for a composite remedy to the Corporation to realize the dues both from the principal borrower as also from the guarantor.(iv) Remedy both under Sections 29 and 31 being equal, speedy and efficacious, it would be wrong to contend that both the reliefs can be claimed simultaneously.	Arguments of Respondent
THE ACT The Act was enacted to provide for the establishment of State Financial Corporations.	None
Appellant is a Corporation established and incorporated under the Act.	None
Industrial concern has been defined in Section 2(c) of the Act to mean any concern engaged or to be engaged in any of the activities specified therein.	Reasoning
Section 29 of the Act provides for the rights of financial corporation to realize its dues in case of default.	None
We may take notice of Subsection (1) of Section 29 of the Act which reads as under Rights of Financial Corporation in case of default  (1) Where any industrial concern, which is under a liability to the Financial Corporation under an agreement, makes any default in repayment of any loan or advance or any instalment thereof or in meeting its obligations in relation to any guarantee given by the Corporation or otherwise fails to comply with the terms of its agreement with the Financial Corporation, the Financial Corporation shall have the right to take over the management or possession or both of the industrial concerns, as well as the right to transfer by way of lease or sale and realize the property pledged, mortgaged, hypothecated or assigned to the Financial Corporation.	None
Section 30 of the Act inter alia provides for power to call for repayment before the agreed period.	None
Section 31 provides for special provisions for enforcement of claims by Financial Corporation.	None
It reads as under Special provisions for enforcement of claims by Financial Corporation .	None
(1) Where an industrial concern, in breach of any agreement, makes any default in repayment of any loan or advance or any instalment thereof or in meeting its obligations in relation to any guarantee given by the Corporation or otherwise fails to comply with the terms of its agreement with the Financial Corporation or where the Financial Corporation requires an industrial concern to make immediate repayment of any loan or advance under Section 30 and the industrial concern fails to make such repayment then, without prejudice to the provisions of Section 29 of this Act and of Section 69 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882), any officer of the Financial Corporation, generally or specially authorised by the Board in this behalf, may apply to the District Judge within the limits of whose jurisdiction the industrial concern carries on the whole or a substantial part of its business for one or more of the following reliefs, namely(a) for an order for the sale of the property pledged, mortgaged, hypothecated or assigned to the Financial Corporation as security for the loan or advance or(aa) for enforcing the liability of any surety or(b) for transferring the management of the industrial concern to the Financial Corporation or(c) for an ad interim injunction restraining the industrial concern from transferring or removing its machinery or plant or equipment from the premises of the industrial concern without the permission of the Board, where such removal is apprehended.(2) An application under subsection (1) shall state the nature and extent of the liability of the industrial concern to the Financial Corporation, the ground on which it is made and such other particulars as may be prescribed.	None
Section 32 of the Act provides for the procedure in respect of the proceedings before the District Judge on applications under Section 31 subsection (1A) whereof reads as under (1A)	None
When the application is for the relief mentioned in clause (aa) of subsection (1) of Section 31, the District Judge shall issue a notice calling upon the surety to show cause on a date to be specified in the notice why his liability should not be enforced.	None
For enforcing a claim envisaged under clause (aa) of Subsection (1) of Section 31 of the Act, a special procedure has been laid down in subsection (4A) of Section 32 which reads as under (4A)	None
If no cause is shown on or before the date specified in the notice under Subsection (1A) the district judge shall forthwith order the enforcement of the liability of the surety.	None
Section 32G of the Act, which was also inserted by Act No. 43 of 1985, provides for yet another additional remedy to a financial corporation in the following terms 32G. Recovery of amounts due to the Financial Corporation as an arrear of land revenue.	None
Where any amount is due to the Financial Corporation in respect of any accommodation granted by it to any industrial concern, the Financial Corporation or any person authorised by it in writing in this behalf, may, without prejudice to any other mode of recovery, make an application to the State Government for the recovery of the amount due to it, and if the State Government or such authority, as that Government may specify in this behalf, is satisfied, after following such procedure as may be prescribed, that any amount is so due, it may issue a certificate for that amount to the Collector, and the Collector shall proceed to recover that amount in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue.	None
INTERPRETATION  SECTION 29 ISSUE	None
A lender of money under the common law has the remedy to file a suit for realization of the amount lent if the borrower does not repay the same.	None
The Act, however, provides for a special remedy in favour of the Financial Corporation constituted thereunder enabling it to exercise a statutory power of either selling the property or take over the management or possession or both belonging to the industrial concern.	None
Section 29, therefore, confers an extraordinary power upon the Corporation.	None
It, being a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India, is expected to exercise its statutory powers reasonably and bona fide.	None
Apart from the said constitutional restrictions, the statute does not put any embargo upon the corporation to exercise its power under Section 29 of the Act.	Reasoning
Indisputably, the said provision was enacted by the Parliament with a view to see that the dues of the Corporation are realized expeditiously.	Reasoning
When a statutory power is conferred, it is a trite law that the same must be exercised within the four corners of the Statute.	Reasoning
Power of a lender to realize the amount lent either by enforcing the charged and or hypothecated or encumbrance created on certain property and or proceeding simultaneously and or independently against the surety guarantor is a statutory right.	Reasoning
Different statutes provide for different remedies.	Reasoning
We may by way of example refer to Pawan Kumar Jain v. Pradeshiya Industrial and Investment Corporation of U.P. Ltd. and Others (2004) 6 SCC 758 where a statutory mandate has been given to realize the dues from sale of the mortgaged properties and then to sell other properties of the borrower.	Reasoning
We are, however, not concerned with such a situation.11.	Reasoning
Such a right can also indisputably be conferred by way of contract as has been provided for under Section 69 of the Transfer of Property Act in terms whereof a mortgagee is entitled to effect sale without the intervention of the court, subject, of course, to the limitations prescribed therein.12.	Reasoning
If special provisions are made in derogation to the general right of a citizen, the statute, in our opinion, should receive strict construction.	Reasoning
Industrial concern has been defined under the Act.	Reasoning
For the purpose of enforcing a liability of an industrial concern, recourse can be taken both under Sections 29 and 31 of the Act.	Reasoning
Right of the corporation to file a suit or take recourse to the provisions contained in Section 32G of the Act also exists.	Reasoning
The heading of Section 29 of the Act states Rights of financial corporation in case of default.	None
The default contemplated thereby is of the industrial concern.	None
Such default would create a liability on the industrial concern.	None
Such a liability would arise when the industrial concern makes any default in repayment of any loan or advance or any instalment thereof under the agreement.	None
It may also arise when it fails to meet its obligation(s) in relation to any guarantee given by the corporation.	None
If it otherwise fails to comply with the terms of the agreement with the financial corporation, also the same provisions would apply.	None
In the eventualities contemplated under Section 29 of the Act, the corporation shall have the right to take over the management or possession or both of the industrial concern.	None
The provision does not stop there.	None
It confers an additional right as the words as well as is used which confers a right on the corporation to transfer by way of lease or sale and realize the property pledged, mortgaged, hypothetical or assigned to the corporation.	None
Section 29 of the Act nowhere states that the corporation can proceed against the surety even if some properties are mortgaged or hypothecated by it.	Reasoning
The right of the financial corporation in terms of Section 29 of the Act must be exercised only on a defaulting party.	Reasoning
There cannot be any default as is envisaged in Section 29 by a surety or a guarantor.	Reasoning
The liabilities of a surety or the guarantor to repay the loan of the principal debtor arises only when a default is made by the latter.15.	Reasoning
The words as well as in our opinion play a significant role.	Reasoning
It confers two different rights but such rights are to be enforced against the same person, viz., the industrial concern.	Reasoning
Submission of the learned senior counsel that the second part of Section 29 having not referred to industrial concern, any property pledged, mortgaged, hypothecated or assigned to the financial corporation can be sold, in our opinion cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
It is true that subsection (1) of Section 29 speaks of guarantee.	Reasoning
But such a guarantee is meant to be furnished by the Corporation in favour of a third party for the benefit of the industrial concern.	Reasoning
It does not speak about a surety or guarantee given in favour of the corporation for the benefit of the industrial concern.16.	Reasoning
The legislative object and intent becomes furthermore clear as in terms of Subsection (4) of Section 29 of the Act only when a property is sold, the manner in which the sale proceeds is to be appropriated has categorically been provided therein.	Reasoning
It is significant to notice that subsection (4) of Section 29 of the Act which lays down appropriation of the sale proceeds only refers to industrial concern and not a surety or guarantor.	Reasoning
The provisions of Section 128 of the Indian Contract Act must also be kept in mind.	None
It is only by reason thereof, subject of course to the contract by the parties thereto, the liability of a surety is made coextensive with the liability of the principal debtor.	None
Banking practice may enable a financial corporation to ask for a collateral security.	None
Such security, we would assume, may be furnished by the Directors of a Company but furnishing of such security or guarantee is not confined to the Directors or employees or their close relatives.	None
They may be outsiders also.	None
The rights and liabilities of a surety and the principal borrower are different and distinct.	None
Apart from the defences available to a principal borrower under the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, a surety or a guarantor is entitled to take additional defence.	None
Such additional defence may be taken by the guarantor not only against the corporation but also against the principal debtor.	None
He, in a given situation, would be entitled to show that the contract of guarantee has come to a not.	None
Ordinarily, therefore, when a guarantee is sought to be enforced, the same must be done through a court having appropriate jurisdiction.	None
In the absence of any express provision in the statute, a person being in lawful possession cannot be deprived thereof by reason of default on the part of a principal borrower.	None
Furthermore, construction of a statute would not depend upon a contingency.	None
A statute must be interpreted having regard to the constitutional provisions as also human rights.	None
We will deal with this aspect of the matter a little later.	None
IMPLIED POWER Reference to implied and or incidental power of the Corporation as was contended by Mr. Venugopal deserves outright rejection.	None
Our attention has been drawn to the following passage of Principles of Statutory Interpretation by Justice G.P. Singh, 9th edition, page 365 10th edition, page 391 The rule of implied prohibition is, however, subservient to the basic principle that the Court must, as far as possible, adopt a construction which effectuates the legislative intent and purpose.	None
We fail to see how the aforementioned statement of law comes to the aid to the contention of the learned counsel.	None
Moreover Section 29 of the Act does not deal with a case where express and implied conditions have been laid down in the matter of exercise of power conferred upon a statutory authority under a Statute.	Reasoning
Section 29 does not envisage any prohibition at all either express or implied.	Reasoning
Let us consider the legal implication of the aforementioned statement of law in the light of a decision of this Court.	Reasoning
In Jamal Uddin Ahmad v. Abu Saleh Najmuddin and Another (2003) 4 SCC 257 , this Court stated the law, thus Dealing with statutes conferring power implied conditions, judicial review, Justice G.P. Singh states in the Principles of Statutory Interpretation (8th Edn., 2001, at pp. 333, 334) that a power conferred by a statute often contains express conditions for its exercise and in the absence of or in addition to the express conditions there are also implied conditions for exercise of the power.	None
An affirmative statute introductive of a new law directing a thing to be done in a certain way mandates, even if there be no negative words, that the thing shall not be done in any other way.	None
This rule of implied prohibition is subservient to the basic principle that the court must, as far as possible, attach a construction which effectuates the legislative intent and purpose.	None
Further, the rule of implied prohibition does not negate the principle that an express grant of statutory power carries with it by necessary implication the authority to use all reasonable means to make such grant effective.	None
To illustrate, an Act of Parliament conferring jurisdiction over an offence implies a power in that jurisdiction to make out a warrant and secure production of the person charged with the offence power conferred on the Magistrate to grant maintenance under Section 125 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 to prevent vagrancy implies a power to allow interim maintenance power conferred on a local authority to issue licences for holding hats or fairs implies incidental power to fix days therefor power conferred to compel canegrowers to supply cane to sugar factories implies an incidental power to ensure payment of price.	None
A statutory authority, thus, may have an implied power to effectuate exercise of substantive power, but the same never means that if a remedy is provided to take action against one in a particular manner, it may not only be exercised against him but also against the other in the same manner.	None
It is a trite law that the entire statute must be first read as a whole then section by section, clause by clause, phrase by phrase and word by word.	None
See Reserve Bank of India v. Peerless General Finance and Investment Co. Ltd. and Others, (1987) 1 SCC 424 , Deewan Singh Ors.	None
v. Rajendra Pd.	None
Ardevi Ors. 2007	None
(1) SCALE 32 and Sarabjit Rick Singh v. Union of India, 2007 (14) SCALE 263 SECTION 31  ISSUE Keeping the aforementioned legal principles in mind, we may notice the other limb of the argument of Mr. Venugopal that Section 31 of the Act is to be taken recourse to only when an interlocutory order is required to be sought for and not otherwise.	Reasoning
Section 31 of the Act provides for a special provision.	Reasoning
It, apart from the default on the part of the industrial concern, can be invoked where the financial corporation requires an industrial concern to make immediate repayment of loan or advance in terms of Section 30 if and when such requirement is not met.	Reasoning
The aforementioned provision could be resorted to by the Corporation, without prejudice, to its rights under the provisions of Section 29 as also Section 69 of the Transfer of Property Act and for the said purpose it is required to apply to the District Judge having appropriate jurisdiction.	Reasoning
Section 31 of the Act provides for the reliefs which may be sought for by the Corporation strictly in terms thereof.	Reasoning
Clause (aa) of subsection (1) of Section 31 of the Act provides for a final relief.	Reasoning
It does not speak of any interlocutory order.	Reasoning
Clause (aa), as noticed hereinbefore, has been inserted by Act No. 43 of 1985.	Reasoning
Thus, prior thereto even Section 31 could not have been taken recourse to against a surety.23.	Reasoning
Such a relief, if prayed for, would also lead to grant of a final relief and not an interlocutory one.	Reasoning
Similarly, clause (b) of Subsection (1) of Section 31 of the Act also provides for a final relief.	Reasoning
Only clause (c) of Subsection (1) of Section 31 of the Act empowers the District Judge in the event any application is filed by the Corporation to pass an ad interim injunction.	Reasoning
The very fact that Section 31 uses the terminology without prejudice to the provisions of Section 29 of the Act and or Section 69 of the Transfer of Property Act, it clearly postulates an additional relief.	Reasoning
What can be done by invoking Section 29 of the Act can inter alia be done by invoking Section 31 thereof also but therefor a different procedure has to be adopted.	Reasoning
Section 31 also provides for a relief against a surety and not confined to the industrial concern alone.	Reasoning
Subsection (2) of Section 31 also refers to industrial concern and not the surety.	Reasoning
The legislative intent, therefore, to our mind, is clear and unambiguous.	Reasoning
SUBSEQUENT AMENDMENT  EFFECT Subsection (1A) of Section 32 of the Act lays down a procedure when clause (aa) of Subsection (1) of Section 31 thereof is invoked.	None
Subsection (4A) of Section 31 also empowers the court to forthwith order the enforcement of the liability of the surety if no cause is shown on or before the date notified by the parties.	None
However, in the event, a cause is shown upon making an investigation as provided for under Subsection (6) of Section 32, a final order can be passed in terms of Subsection (7) thereof.	None
Significantly, by Act No. 43 of 1985, Section 32G of the Act was also inserted.	None
It does not speak of an industrial concern.	None
Section 32G, therefore, can be resorted to both against the industrial concern as also the security.	None
It is so held by this Court in Delhi Financial Corpn.	None
And Another v. Rajiv Anand and Others (2004) 11 SCC 625 in the following terms Thus a provision incorporated by the legislature with the intention to enable financial corporations to speedily recover amounts due to them cannot be whittled down by giving an interpretation which would render it nugatory.	None
While interpreting the provisions of a statute, the court employs different principles or canons.	None
To interpret a statute in a reasonable manner, the court must place itself in the chair of a reasonable legislator author.	None
See New India Assurance Company Ltd. v. Nusli Neville Wadia and Anr.	None
JT 2008 (1) SC 31 Attempt on the part of the court while interpreting the provisions of a statute should, therefore, be to pose a question as to why one provision has been amended and the other was not?	None
Why one terminology has been used while inserting a statutory provision and a different clause in another?	None
It is wellknown that casus omissus cannot be supplied.	None
See Ashok Lanka v. Rishi Dixit (2005) 5 SCC 598 and J. Srinivasa Rao v. Govt.	None
of A.P. Anr 2006 (13) SCALE 27 and Southern Petrochemical Industries Co. Ltd. v. Electricity Inspector and E.T.I.O. and Ors.	None
(2007) 5 SCC 447	None
The legislative intent, in our opinion, is manifest.	Reasoning
The intention of the Parliament in enacting Sections 29 and 31 of the Act was not similar.	Reasoning
Whereas Section 29 of the Act consists of the property of the industrial concern, Section 31 takes within its sweep both the property of the industrial concern and as that of the surety.	Reasoning
None of the provisions control each other.	Reasoning
The Parliament intended to provide an additional remedy for recovery of the amount in favour of the Corporation by proceeding against a surety only in terms of Section 31 of the Act and not under Section 29 thereof.	Reasoning
THE EFFECT OF A Corporation, after coming into force of Section 32G of the Act has four remedies, viz.	None
to file a suit to take recourse to Section 29 to take recourse to Section 31 and to take recourse to Section 32G of the Act.	None
In A.P. State Financial Corporation v. M s GAR ReRolling Mills and Another (1994) 2 SCC 647 , this Court held The right vested in the Corporation under Section 29 of the Act is besides the right already possessed at common law to institute a suit or the right available to it under Section 31 of the Act.	None
Section 32G of the Act provides for an additional remedy.	None
It is, however, interesting to note that while upholding the right of the Corporation to opt for either Section 29 or Section 31 of the Act, it was opined In our opinion the Corporation can initially take recourse to Section 31 of the Act but withdraw or abandon it at any stage and take recourse to the provisions of Section 29 of the Act, which section deals with not only the rights but also provides a selfcontained remedy to the Corporation for recovery of its dues.	None
If the Corporation chooses to take recourse to the remedy available under Section 31 of the Act and pursues the same to the logical conclusion and obtains an order or decree, it may thereafter execute the order or decree, in the manner provided by Section 32(7) and (8) of the Act.	None
The Corporation, however, may withdraw or abandon the proceedings at that stage and take recourse to the provisions of Section 29 of the Act.	None
Right of property, although no longer a fundamental right, is still a constitutional right.	None
It is also human right.	None
In absence of any provision either expressly or by necessary implication, depriving a person there from, the court shall not construe a provision leaning in favour of such deprivation.	None
Recently, this Court in P.T. Munichikkanna Reddy Ors.	None
v. Revamma Ors.	None
(2007) 6 SCC 59 dealing with adverse possession opined Human rights have been historically considered in the realm of individual rights such as, right to health, right to livelihood, right to shelter and employment etc.	None
but now human rights are gaining a multifaceted dimension.	None
Right to property is also considered very much a part of the new dimension.	None
Therefore, even claim of adverse possession has to be read in that context.	None
The activist approach of the English Courts is quite visible from the judgment of Beaulane Properties Ltd. v. Palmer 2005 (3) WLR 554 2005 EWHC 817 (Ch.) and JA Pye (Oxford) Ltd v. United Kingdom 2005	None
ECHR	None
921 2005 49 ERG 90, 2005 ECHR 921, The court herein tried to read the Human Rights position in the context of adverse possession.	None
But what is commendable is that the dimension of human rights has widened so much that now property dispute issues are also being raised within the contours of human rights.	None
A surety may be a Director of the Company.	None
He also may not be.	None
Even if he is a close relative of the Director or the Managing Director of the Company, the same is not relevant.	None
A Director of the Company is not an industrial concern.	None
He in his capacity as a surety would certainly not be.	None
A juristic person is a separate legal entity.	None
Its veil can be lifted or pierced only in certain situations.	None
See Salomon v. Salomon and Co. 1897 AC 22, Dal Chand and Others v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Punjab (1944) 12 ITR 458, Juggilal Kamlapat vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, U.P. (1969) 1	None
SCR 988 1969 (73) ITR 702 and Kapila Hingorani v. State of Bihar (2003)	None
6 SCC 1 Interpretation of a statute would not depend upon a contingency.	Reasoning
It has to be interpreted on its own.	Reasoning
It is a trite law that the court would ordinarily take recourse to the golden rule of literal interpretation.	Reasoning
It is not a case where we are dealing with a defect in the legislative drafting.	Reasoning
We cannot presume any.	Reasoning
In a case where a court has to weigh between a right of recovery and protection of a right, it would also lean in favour of the person who is going to be deprived therefrom.	Reasoning
It would not be the other way round.	Reasoning
Only because a speedy remedy is provided for that would itself lead to the conclusion that the provisions of the Act have to be extended although the statute does not say so.	Reasoning
The object of the Act would be a relevant factor for interpretation only when the language is not clear and when two meanings are possible and not in a case where the plain language leads to only one conclusion.33.	Reasoning
Even if the legislation is beneficent, the same by itself would not be held to be extendable to a situation which the statute does not contemplate.	Reasoning
S. Sundaram Pillai, etc. v. V.R.	None
Pattabiraman AIR 1985 SC 582 .	None
In Attorney General v. Milne 191415 All E.R. Rep. 1061, Lord Dunedin states Now, prima facie one would expect that the scope of the two sets of provisions would be the same, i.e., in other words that the question must be answered as to those kinds of property which are swept in by s.2, just as much as to those which fall under s.1.	None
Inasmuch, however, as this is a taxing statute, and the duty here is an additional duty, I consider that it must be shown that the words would clearly cover the individual case to which it is right to apply them.	None
It is now wellsettled that when more than one remedy is provided for an option is given to a suiter to opt for one or the other remedy.	Reasoning
Such a provision is not ultra vires as has been held by this Court in Maganlal Chhaganlal (P) Ltd. v. Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay and Others (1974) 2 SCC 402 , Director of Industries, U.P. and Others v. Deep Chand Agarwal (1980) 2 SCC 332 Rajiv Anand (supra).	None
CONCLUSION	None
For the views we have taken, it is not necessary for us to consider the question as to whether before a property is put to sale, possession is required to be taken.	None
For the reasons aforementioned, there is no merit in these appeals which are dismissed accordingly.	Decision
Counsels fee assessed at Rs. 50,000/ in each case.	Decision
