 F. Nariman, J. Leave granted.	None
The present appeal arises out of a public auction conducted by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA)	Issue
wherein the appellant made the highest bid for Plot No.2A, Bhikaji Cama Place, District Centre, New Delhi for 3.12 Crores (Rupees Three Crores Twelve Lakhs).	Facts
As per the terms and conditions of the auction, the appellant, being the highest bidder, deposited a sum of Rs.78,00,000/ (Rupees Seventy Eight Lakhs), being 25 of the bid amount, with the DDA, this being earnest money under the terms of the conditions of auction.	Issue
The relevant provisions in the conditions of auction read as follows The highest bidder shall, at the fall of the hammer, pay to the Delhi Development Authority through the officer conducting the auction, 25 of the bid amount as earnest money either in cash or by Bank Draft in favour of the Delhi Development Authority, or Cheque guaranteed by a Scheduled Bank as good for payment for three months in favour of the Delhi Development Authority.	Facts
If the earnest money is not paid, the auction held in respect of that plot will be cancelled.(iii)	Facts
The highest bid shall be subject to the acceptance of ViceChairman, DDA or such other officer(s) as may be authorized by him on his behalf.	Facts
The highest bid may be rejected without assigning any reason.(iv)	Facts
In case of default, breach or noncompliance of any of the terms and conditions of the auction or mis representation by the bidder and or intending purchaser, the earnest money shall be forfeited.(v)	Facts
The successful bidder shall submit a duly filledin application in the form attached immediately after the close of the auction of plot in question.(vi)	Facts
When the bid is accepted by the DDA, the intending purchaser shall be informed of such acceptance in writing and the intending purchaser shall, within 3 months thereof, pay to the Delhi Development Authority, the balance 75 amount of the bid, in cash or by Bank Draft in favour of the Delhi Development Authority or by Cheque guaranteed by a Scheduled Bank as good for payment for three months in favour of the Delhi Development Authority.	Facts
If the bid is not accepted, the earnest money will be refunded to the intending purchaser without any interest unless the earnest money is forfeited under para 2 (iv) above.	Facts
On 18.2.1982, the DDA acknowledged the receipt of Rs.78,00,000/ (Rupees Seventy Eight Lakhs), accepted the appellants bid and directed the appellant to deposit the remaining 75 by 17.5.1982.	Facts
However, as there was a general recession in the industry, the appellant and persons similarly placed made representations sometime in May, 1982 for extending the time for payment of the remaining amount.	Facts
The DDA set up a High Powered Committee to look into these representations.	Facts
The High Powered Committee on 21.7.1982 recommended granting the extension of time to bidders for depositing the remaining amount of 75.	Facts
Based on the High Powered Committees report, by a letter dated 11.8.1982, the DDA extended time for payment upto 28.10.1982 with varying rates of interest starting from 18 and going upto 36.4.	Facts
Another High Powered Committee was also set up by the DDA in order to find out whether further time should be given to the appellant and persons similarly situate to the appellant.5.	Facts
The second High Powered Committee recommended that the time for payment be extended and specifically mentioned the appellants name as a person who should be given more time to pay the balance amount.	Facts
Despite the fact that on 14.5.1984 the DDA accepted the recommendations of the second High Powered Committee, nothing happened till 1.12.1987.	Facts
Several letters had been written by the appellant to DDA from 1984 to 1987 but no answer was forthcoming by the DDA.6.	Facts
Vide a letter dated 1.12.1987, which is an important letter on the basis of which the fate of this appeal largely depends, the DDA stated as follows WITHOUT PREJUDICEDELHI DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITYVIKAS SADANI.N.A.New	Facts
Delhi23198 .No.	Facts
F.32(2)/82/Impl.	Facts
I/4From DIRECTOR (C.L)DELHI DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITYTo,M s. Kailash Nath Associates,1006, Kanchanjanga Building,18, Bara Khamba Road,New Delhi110001.Sub Regarding payment of balance premium in respect of Plot No.2A situated in Bhikaji Cama Place Distt.	Facts
Centre.	Facts
Sir,With reference to the above subject, I am directed to inform you that your case for relaxing the provisions of Nazul Rules, 1981, to condone the delay for the payment of balance premium in installments was referred to the Govt.	Facts
of India, Min. of Urban Development.	Facts
Before the case is further examined by the Govt.	Facts
of India, Min. of Urban Development, you are requested to give your consent for making payment of balance amount of 75 premium within the period as may be fixed alongwith 18 interest charges p.a.	Facts
on the belated payment.	Facts
Further the schedule of payment and conditions if any will be as per the directions issued by the Ministry of Urban Development, Govt. of India.	Facts
It is, however, made clear that this letter does not carry any commitment.	Facts
Your consent should reach to this office within 3 days from the date of issue of this letter.	Facts
Dated 1.12.87Yours faithfully,Sd DIRECTOR (C.L)	None
The appellant replied to the said letter on the same day itself in the following terms KAILASH NATH ASSOCIATESTel.	None
3312648, 33142691006, KANCHENJUNGA,18, BARAKHAMBA ROAD,NEW DELHIII0001Regd.	Facts
Ack.	Facts
Due.December 1, 1987.The Director (C.L.),Delhi Development Authority,Vikas Sadan, I.N.A.,New Delhil 10023.Subject Payment of balance premium in respect of plot No.2A	Facts
Bhikaji Cama Place Distt.	Facts
Centre, New Delhi.	Facts
Dear Sir,We are thankful to you for your letter No. F.30(2)/82Impl.	Facts
I/4 dated nil received by us this afternoon, on the above subject.	Facts
We hereby give our consent that we shall make the payment of the balance amount of 75 premium within the period as may be fixed as per the schedule of payment and conditions, if any imposed, as per the directions issued by the Ministry of Urban Development, Govt. of India, alongwith 18 interest charges per annum on the belated payment.	Facts
We now request you to kindly convey us your formal approval to our making the said payment in installments as requested for.	Facts
Thanking you,Yours faithfullyFor KAILASH NATH ASSOCIATES,Sd PartnerAdvance copy sent through Special Messenger.	Facts
The Central Government informed the DDA vide a letter dated 1.3.1990 that the land auctioned to the appellant was not Nazul land and, therefore, the Central Government would have nothing further to do with the matter.	Facts
Meanwhile, the appellant filed Writ Petition No.2395 of 1990 in the Delhi High Court in which it claimed that persons similar to the appellant, namely, M s. Ansal Properties and Industries Private Limited and M s Skipper Tower Private Limited had been allowed to pay the balance 75 premium and were in fact allotted other plots.	Facts
Pleading Article 14, the appellant stated that they were entitled to the same treatment.9.	Facts
By a judgment and order dated 2.9.1993, the Delhi High Court held that as the auction was held as per terms and conditions of the auction, a dispute regarding the same is a matter of contract and cannot be gone into in proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution.	Facts
It was further observed that on facts, the Court found no force in the contention raised on behalf of the appellant regarding discrimination.	Facts
An SLP against this order was also dismissed on 16.12.1993 by the Supreme Court stating that the appellant is at liberty to take whatever steps are permitted to the appellant under law to challenge forfeiture of earnest money, which had been done by a letter of 6.10.1993.	Facts
This letter is also important for the correct determination of this appeal and is set out hereinbelow REGD.A.D.DELHI DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITYVIKAS SADANI.N.A.New Delhi23, 6.10.1993No.F.32(2)/82/CL/3816From DY.	Facts
DIRECTOR (CL).To,M s. Kailash Nath Associates,1006, Kanchanjanga Building,18, Bara Khamba Road,New Delhil10001.Subject Plot No.2A in Bhikaji Cama Place Distt.	Facts
Centre.	Facts
Sir,Consequent upon your failure to deposit the balance 75 premium of the aforesaid plot and dismissal of C.W.P. No. 2395 of 1990 by the Honble High Court, Delhi, I am directed to inform you that the bid allotment of the said plot in your favour has been cancelled and earnest money amounting to Rs.78,00,000/ deposited by you at the time of auction has been forfeited.	Facts
Yours faithfully,Sd (JAGDISH CHANDER)DEPUTY DIRECTOR (CL)	None
The appellant then filed a suit for specific performance on 17.2.1994 and in the alternative for recovery of damages and recovery of the earnest amount of Rs.78,00,000/ (Rupees Seventy Eight Lakhs).	Facts
Shortly after the suit was filed, on 23.2.1994, the DDA reauctioned the premises which fetched a sum of Rs.11.78 Crores (Rupees Eleven Crores Seventy Eight Lakhs).11.	Facts
The learned Single Judge by a judgment and order dated 10.9.2007 dismissed the appellants suit for specific performance and damages but ordered refund of the earnest money forfeited together with 9 per annum interest.	Facts
The learned Single Judge held Defendant No.1 instead of following the aforesaid course, found merit in the representations received not only from the plaintiff but such similar situated parties.	Facts
It is in view thereof that the matter went as far as setting up of two committees to repeatedly examine the matter and to come to a conclusion.	Facts
The case of defendant no.1 was that the material produced by the plaintiff and such similar persons gave rise to a cause to extend the time for making the payment subject to certain terms and conditions.	Facts
However, in view of the perception of defendant no.1 that the consent of UOI, defendant no.2, would be required, the land being Nazul land, the file was forwarded to defendant no.2.	Facts
The matter did not rest at this since thereafter UOI did grant such consent but sent back the file of the plaintiff only on account of the fact that the land in question was not Nazul land.	Facts
The net effect of this is that there was no permission required from the UOI and the decision taken by defendant no.1 to extend the time period for making the payment, thus, stood as it is.66.	Facts
In my considered view, it is not open for defendant no.1 to state that while it recommended the case of other similarly situated parties in case of Nazul land to the Government and obtained permission for grant of extension of time, in case of nonNazul land where such permission was not required, a different parameter was required to be followed.	Facts
It may be mentioned at the cost of repetition that the plaintiff was a party which volunteered to pay interest 18 per annum unlike some of the other parties.	Facts
There is merit in the contention of learned Counsel for the plaintiff that defendant no.1 after treating the contract as subsistent having extended time for making the payment was at least required to give a notice to the plaintiff to perform the agreement prior to terminating the agreement and could not straightaway terminate the same.	Facts
This conclusion can draw strength from the observations in Halsbury Laws of England (supra) referred to aforesaid as also in Webb v. Hughes (supra).	Facts
It is clearly a case where there has been waiver of the time being essence of the contract by conduct of the parties and, thus, defendant no.1 was required to give notice on the day appointed for completion of the contract failing which only termination could take place.67.	Facts
There were numerous communications exchanged between the parties.	Facts
The recommendations of the two highpowered committees constituted by defendant no.1 made its recommendations which were accepted by defendant no.1 vide its resolution dated 14.5.1984 (Ex. DW2/P4).	Facts
Having accepted the recommendations, in the case of the plaintiff defendant no.1 was required to do nothing further but mistakenly referred the case to UOI for its approval assuming the case to be one of Nazul land.	Facts
Plaintiff sent repeated reminders vide letters dated 9121985 (Ex.P11), 20101986 (Ex.P12), 10121986(Ex.	Facts
P13), 10021987 (Ex.P14), 11041987(Ex.	Facts
P16), 10081987(Ex.P17) and 10101987 (Ex.P18) calling upon defendant no.1 to give an offer of deposit of balance 25 of the premium so as to bring the total payment equivalent to 50 of the total premium and for release of the possession of the land to the plaintiff for purpose of construction.	Facts
Defendant no.1 vide its letter received on 1.12.1987 by the plaintiff (Ex.P19) sought the consent of the plaintiff to abide by the recommendations of the highpowered committee and the consent was duly given on the even date (Ex.P20).	Facts
Thereafter no offer was made to the plaintiff and without any notice of compliance for payment, the letter of cancellation dated 6.10.1993 (Ex.P26) was issued.	Facts
It appears that defendant no.1 itself was not aware of the land being nonNazul land as the first communication was addressed to the plaintiff only on 1.3.1990.68.	Facts
The present case is one where defendant no.1 has not even suffered a loss.	Facts
The plot was to be purchased by the plaintiff at Rs.3.12 crores and it was finally sold to a third party at Rs.11.78 crores, i.e. almost three and a half times the price.	Facts
During this period defendant no.1 continued to enjoy the earnest money of the plaintiff of Rs.78.00 lacs.69.	Facts
In view of the prolonged period, exchange of communications, the plaintiff making various offers but not complying with the initial terms, defendant no.1 taking its own time in the decision making process, I am of the considered view that the plaintiff is entitled to the refund of the earnest money of Rs.78.00 lacs but no further amount is liable to be paid to the plaintiff.	Facts
DDA appealed against the Single Judges judgment to a Division Bench of the Delhi High Court.	Facts
The Division Bench set aside the judgment of the Single Judge holding that the forfeiture of the earnest money by the DDA was in order.	Facts
Shri Paras Kuhad, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellant, urged that time may have been of the essence under the original terms and conditions of the auction.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, time had been extended on several occasions and, therefore, ceased to be of the essence.	Arguments of Petitioner
In answer to the letter dated 1.12.1987, the appellant promptly replied and said it would be willing to pay the entire 75 with 18 interest and, therefore, there was no breach of contract on the part of the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, since the DDA sold the plot for 11.78 Crores (Rupees Eleven Crores Seventy Eight Lakhs), there was no loss caused to the DDA and, hence forfeiture of earnest money would not be in accordance with the agreement or in accordance with law.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Amarendra Sharan, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the DDA, rebutted these contentions and added that the case was covered by the judgment in Shree Hanuman Cotton Mills Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
v. Tata Aircraft Ltd., 1970 (3) SCR 127.	Arguments of Respondent
He argued further that since the letter of 1.12.1987 had been issued under a mistake of fact, it would be void under Section 20 of the Contract Act and the said letter should, therefore, be ignored.	Arguments of Respondent
If it is ignored, then the termination of the contract and the forfeiture of earnest money are completely in order as the appellant was in breach.	Arguments of Respondent
The fact that the DDA ultimately sold the plot for a much larger sum, according to learned counsel, would be irrelevant inasmuch as the contractual term agreed upon between parties would entitle him to forfeit earnest money on breach without any necessity of proving actual loss.	Arguments of Respondent
Having heard learned counsel for the parties, it is important at the very outset to notice that earnest money can be forfeited under subclause (iv) set out hereinabove, only in the case of default, breach, or noncompliance of any of the terms and conditions of the auction, or on misrepresentation by the bidder.	Reasoning
It may be noted that the balance 75 which had to be paid within three months of the acceptance of the bid, was not insisted upon by the DDA.	Reasoning
On the contrary, after setting up two High Powered Committees which were instructed to look into the grievances of the appellant, the DDA extended time at least twice.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, very difficult to say that there was a breach of any terms and conditions of the auction, as the period of three months which the DDA could have insisted upon had specifically been waived.	Reasoning
It is nobodys case that there is any misrepresentation here by the bidder.	Reasoning
Therefore, under subclause (iv), without more, earnest money could not have been forfeited.16.	Reasoning
The other noticeable feature of this case on facts is that DDA specifically requested the appellant to give their consent to make the balance payable along with 18 interest charges on belated payment.	Reasoning
This was on the footing that the Nazul Rules of 1981 would be relaxed by the Central Government.	Reasoning
The reason why the letter is marked without prejudice and the DDA made it clear that the letter does not carry any commitment, is obviously because the Central Government may not relax the provision of the Nazul Rules, in which case nothing further could be done by the DDA.	Reasoning
If, however, the Central Government was willing to condone the delay, DDA would be willing to take 75 of the outstanding amount along with 18 interest.17.	Reasoning
Mr. Sharan argued that since the Central Government ultimately found that this was not a Nazul land, the letter was obviously based on a mistake of fact and would be void under Section 20 of the Contract Act.	Reasoning
We are afraid we are not able to accept this plea.	Reasoning
Long after the Central Government informed DDA (on 1.3.1990) that the property involved in the present case is not Nazul land, the DDA by its letter of 6.10.1993 cancelled the allotment of the plot because the appellant had failed to deposit the balance 75.	Reasoning
DDAs understanding, therefore, was that what was important was payment of the balance 75 which was insisted upon by the letter dated 1.12.1987 and which was acceded to by the respondent immediately on the same date.	Reasoning
Further, Mr. Sharans argument that since the letter was without prejudice and since no commitment had been made, they were not bound by the terms of the letter also fails to impress us.	Reasoning
The letter was without prejudice and no commitment could have been given by the DDA because the Central Government may well not relax the Nazul Rules.	Reasoning
On the other hand, if the Central Government had, later on, relaxed the Nazul Rules, DDA could not be heard to say that despite this having been done, DDA would yet cancel the allotment of the plot.	Reasoning
That this could not have been done is clear because of the aforesaid construction of the letter dated 1.12.1987 and also because DDA is a public authority bound by Article 14 and cannot behave arbitrarily.	Reasoning
It now remains to deal with the impugned judgment of the Division Bench.	None
The Division Bench followed the judgment of Tilley v. Thomas, (1867 3 Ch.	None
A 61)	None
and distinguished the judgment in Webb v. Hughes, V.C.M. 1870.	None
It further went on to follow Anandram Mangturam v. Bholaram Tanumal, ILR 1946	None
Bom 218 and held The decision holds that the principle of law is that where, by agreement, time is made of the essence of the contract, it cannot be waived by a unilateral act of a party and unless there is consensus adidem between the parties and a new date is agreed to, merely because a party to a contract agrees to consider time being extended for the opposite party to complete the contract, but ultimately refuses to accord concurrence would not mean that the party has by conduct waived the date originally agreed as being of the essence of the contract.	None
(At para 32)	None
In our judgment, Webbs case would directly apply to the facts here.	None
In that case, it was held But if time be made the essence of the contract, that may be waived by the conduct of the purchaser and if the time is once allowed to pass, and the parties go on negotiating for completion of the purchase, then time is no longer of the essence of the contract.	None
But, on the other hand, it must be borne in mind that a purchaser is not bound to wait an indefinite time and if he finds, while the negotiations are going on, that a long time will elapse before the contract can be completed, he may in a reasonable manner give notice to the vendor, and fix a period at which the business is to be terminated.	None
Based on the facts of this case, the Single Judge was correct in observing that the letter of cancellation dated 6.10.1993 and consequent forfeiture of earnest money was made without putting the appellant on notice that it has to deposit the balance 75 premium of the plot within a certain stated time.	None
In the absence of such notice, there is no breach of contract on the part of the appellant and consequently earnest money cannot be forfeited.	None
Tilley v. Thomas, (1867 3 Ch.	None
A 61) would not apply for the reason that the expression without prejudice was only used as stated above because the Central Government may not relax the Nazul Rules.	None
In Anandram Mangturam v. Bholaram Tanumal, ILR 1946	None
Bom 218, two separate judgments were delivered, one by Chief Justice Stone and the other by Chagla,J. as he then was.	None
Stone C.J. held In my judgment, reading the correspondence as a whole, it at no stage passed from the melting pot of negotiations to crystallize as an agreement to extend the time for the performance of the contract.	None
The attitude of the purchaser throughout the correspondence was Satisfy us that you are doing your best to obtain the goods from your suppliers and we will then consider fixing a new date for delivery of the goods to us.	None
On the other hand the attitude of the vendors throughout the correspondence was to avoid the purchasers demand and to simply say You know that we cannot effect delivery from our suppliers and until we do so we cannot deliver the goods to you.	None
There was never in my judgment any consensus adidem, no agreement, express or implied, to extend the time either to any particular date or to the happening of some future event.	None
Mere forbearance in my opinion to institute proceedings or to give notice of rescission cannot be an extension of the time for the performance of a contract within the meaning of s. 63 of the Contract Act.	None
(at 226 227) Chagla, J. in a separate judgment held Under s. 55 of the Indian Contract Act, the promisee is given the option to avoid the contract where the promisor fails to perform the contract at the time fixed in the contract.	None
It is open to the promisee not to exercise the option or to exercise the option at any time, but it is clear to my mind that the promisee cannot by the mere fact of not exercising the option change or alter the date of performance fixed under the contract itself.	None
Under s. 63 of the Indian Contract Act, the promisee may make certain concessions to the promisor which are advantageous to the promisor, and one of them is that he may extend the time for such performance.	None
But it is clear again that such an extension of time cannot be a unilateral extension on the part of the promisee.	None
It is only at the request of the promisor that the promisee may agree to extend the time of performance and thereby bring about an agreement for extension of time.	None
Therefore it is only as a result of the operation of s. 63 of the Indian Contract Act that the time for the performance of the contract can be extended and that time can only be extended by an agreement arrived at between the promisor and the promisee.	None
(at 229)	None
The aforesaid judgment would apply in a situation where a promise accedes to the request of the promisor to extend time that is fixed for his own benefit.	None
Thus, in Keshavlal Lallubhai Patel and Ors.	None
v. Lalbhai Trikumlal Mills Ltd 1959 SCR 213 , this Court held The true legal position in regard to the extension of time for the performance of a contract is quite clear under s. 63 of the Indian Contract Act.	None
Every promisee, as the section provides, may extend time for the performance of the contract.	None
The question as to how extension of time may be agreed upon by the parties has been the subjectmatter of some argument at the Bar in the present appeal.	None
There can be no doubt, we think, that both the buyer and the seller must agree to extend time for the delivery of goods.	None
It would not be open to the promisee by his unilateral act to extend the time for performance of his own accord for his own benefit.	None
However, such is not the position here.	None
In the present case, the appellant is the promisor and DDA is the promisee.	None
In such a situation, DDA can certainly unilaterally extend the time for payment under Section 63 of the Contract Act as the time for payment is not for DDAs own benefit but for the benefit of the appellant.	None
The present case would be covered by two judgments of the Supreme Court.	None
In Citi Bank N.A. v. Standard Chartered Bank, (2004) 1 SCC Page 12, this Court held Under Section 63, unlike Section 62, a promisee can act unilaterally and may(i) dispense with wholly or in part, or(ii) remit wholly or in part, the performance of the promise made to him, or(iii) may extend the time for such performance, or(iv) may accept instead of it any satisfaction which he thinks fit.	None
Similarly in S. Brahmanand v. K.R. Muthugopal, (2005) 12 SCC 764	None
the Supreme Court held Thus, this was a situation where the original agreement of 1031989 had a fixed date for performance, but by the subsequent letter of 1861992 the defendants made a request for postponing the performance to a future date without fixing any further date for performance.	None
This was accepted by the plaintiffs by their act of forbearance and not insisting on performance forthwith.	None
There is nothing strange in time for performance being extended, even though originally the agreement had a fixed date.	None
Section 63 of the Contract Act, 1872 provides that every promisee may extend time for the performance of the contract.	None
Such an agreement to extend time need not necessarily be reduced to writing, but may be proved by oral evidence or, in some cases, even by evidence of conduct including forbearance on the part of the other party.	None
See in this connection the observations of this Court in Keshavlal Lallubhai Patel v. Lalbhai Trikumlal Mills Ltd., 1959 SCR 213 AIR 1958 SC 512 , para 8.	None
See also in this connection Saraswathamma v. H. Sharad Shrikhande, AIR 2005	None
Kant 292 and K. Venkoji Rao v. M. Abdul Khuddur Kureshi, AIR 1991 Kant 119 , following the judgment in Keshavlal Lallubhai Patel (supra).	None
Thus, in this case there was a variation in the date of performance by express representation by the defendants, agreed to by the act of forbearance on the part of the plaintiffs.	None
What was originally covered by the first part of Article 54, now fell within the purview of the second part of the article.	None
Pazhaniappa Chettiyar v. South Indian Planting and Industrial Co. Ltd. AIR 1953 Trav Co 161 was a similar instance where the contract when initially made had a date fixed for the performance of the contract but the Court was of the view that in the events that happened in this case, the agreement in question though started with fixation of a period for the completion of the transaction became one without such period on account of the peculiar facts and circumstances already explained and the contract, therefore, became one in which no time was fixed for its performance and held that what was originally covered by the first part of Article 113 of the Limitation Act, 1908 would fall under the second part of the said article because of the supervening circumstances of the case.(at Page 777)	None
Coming to the application of Article 14, the Division Bench in paragraph 37 stated Now, in India, reasonableness in State action is a facet of Article 14 of the Constitution of India and in the field of contract would have a considerable play at the precontract stage.	None
Once parties have entered into a contractual obligation, they would be bound by the contract and the only reasonableness would be of the kind envisaged by the Supreme Court in the decision reported as AIR 1963 SC 1144 T.P. Daver v. Lodge Victoria	None
No.363 SC Belgaum Ors.	None
On the subject of a member of a club being expelled, and the relationship being a contract as per the rules and regulations of the club, adherence whereto was agreed to by he who became a member of the club and the management of the club, the Supreme Court observed that in such private affairs, it would be good faith in taking an action which is rooted in the minds of modern men and women i.e. in a modern democratic society and no more.	None
The decision guides that where a private affair i.e. a contract is so perverted by a party that it offends the concept of a fairplay in a modern society, alone then can the action be questioned as not in good faith and suffice would it be to state that anything done not in good faith would be unreasonably done.	None
It will be noticed at once that T.P. Daver v. Lodge Victoria No. 363, S.C. Belgaum, 1964 (1) SCR 1 , is not an authority on Article 14 at all.	None
It deals with clubs and the fact that rules or byelaws which bind members of such clubs have to be strictly adhered to.	None
On the other hand in ABL International Ltd. v. Export Credit Guarantee Corpn.	None
of India Ltd., (2004) 3 SCC 553 at paras 22 and 23, the Supreme Court held We do not think the above judgment in VST Industries Ltd. (2001) 1 SCC 298 2001 SCC (LS) 227 supports the argument of the learned counsel on the question of maintainability of the present writ petition.	None
It is to be noted that VST Industries Ltd.(2001) 1 SCC 298 2001 SCC (LS) 227 against whom the writ petition was filed was not a State or an instrumentality of a State as contemplated under Article 12 of the Constitution, hence, in the normal course, no writ could have been issued against the said industry.	None
But it was the contention of the writ petitioner in that case that the said industry was obligated under the statute concerned to perform certain public functions failure to do so would give rise to a complaint under Article 226 against a private body.	None
While considering such argument, this Court held that when an authority has to perform a public function or a public duty, if there is a failure a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution is maintainable.	None
In the instant case, as to the fact that the respondent is an instrumentality of a State, there is no dispute but the question is was the first respondent discharging a public duty or a public function while repudiating the claim of the appellants arising out of a contract?	None
Answer to this question, in our opinion, is found in the judgment of this Court in the case of Kumari Shrilekha Vidyarthi v. State of U.P. (1991) 1 SCC 212 1991 SCC (LS) 742 wherein this Court held (SCC pp.	None
23637, paras 22 24)The impact of every State action is also on public interest.	None
It is really the nature of its personality as State which is significant and must characterize all its actions, in whatever field, and not the nature of function, contractual or otherwise, which is decisive of the nature of scrutiny permitted for examining the validity of its act.	None
The requirement of Article 14 being the duty to act fairly, justly and reasonably, there is nothing which militates against the concept of requiring the State always to so act, even in contractual matters.23.	None
It is clear from the above observations of this Court, once the State or an instrumentality of the State is a party of the contract, it has an obligation in law to act fairly, justly and reasonably which is the requirement of Article 14 of the Constitution of India.	None
Therefore, if by the impugned repudiation of the claim of the appellants the first respondent as an instrumentality of the State has acted in contravention of the abovesaid requirement of Article 14, then we have no hesitation in holding that a writ court can issue suitable directions to set right the arbitrary actions of the first respondent.	None
Based on the facts of this case, it would be arbitrary for the DDA to forfeit the earnest money on two fundamental grounds.	Reasoning
First, there is no breach of contract on the part of the appellant as has been held above.	Reasoning
And second, DDA not having been put to any loss, even if DDA could insist on a contractual stipulation in its favour, it would be arbitrary to allow DDA as a public authority to appropriate Rs.78,00,000/ (Rupees Seventy Eight Lakhs) without any loss being caused.	Reasoning
It is clear, therefore, that Article 14 would apply in the field of contract in this case and the finding of the Division Bench on this aspect is hereby reversed.	Reasoning
We now come to the reasoning which involves Section 74 of the Contract Act.	None
The Division Bench held The learned Single Judge has held that the property was ultimately auctioned in the year 1994 at a price which fetched DDA a handsome return of Rupees 11.78 crores and there being no damages suffered by DDA, it could not forfeit the earnest money.39.	None
The said view runs in the teeth of the decision of the Supreme Court reported as AIR 1970 SC 1986 Shree Hanuman Cotton Mills Anr.	None
V. Tata Aircraft Ltd. which holds that as against an amount tendered by way of security, amount tendered as earnest money could be forfeited as per terms of the contract.40.	None
We may additionally observe that original time to pay the balance bid consideration, as per Ex.PI was May 18, 1982 and as extended by Ex. P8 was October 28, 1982.	None
That DDA could auction the plot in the year 1994 in the sum of Rupees 11.78 crore was immaterial and not relevant evidence for the reason damages with respect to the price of property have to be computed with reference to the date of the breach of the contract.	None
Section 74 as it originally stood read thus When a contract has been broken, if a sum is named in the contract as the amount to be paid in case of such breach, the party complaining of the breach is entitled, whether or not actual damage or loss is proved to have been caused thereby, to receive from the party who has broken the contract reasonable compensation not exceeding the amount so named.	None
By an amendment made in 1899, the Section was amended to read Compensation for breach of contract where penalty stipulated for.	None
When a contract has been broken, if a sum is named in the contract as the amount to be paid in case of such breach, or if the contract contains any other stipulation by way of penalty, the party complaining of the breach is entitled, whether or not actual damage or loss is proved to have been caused thereby, to receive from the party who has broken the contract reasonable compensation not exceeding the amount so named or, as the case may be, the penalty stipulated for.Explanation.	None
A stipulation for increased interest from the date of default may be a stipulation by way of penalty.	None
Exception.	None
When any person enters into any bailbond, recognizance or other instrument of the same nature, or, under the provisions of any law, or under the orders of the Central Government or of any State Government, gives any bond for the performance of any public duty or act in which the public are interested, he shall be liable, upon breach of any condition of any such instrument, to pay the whole sum mentioned therein.	None
Explanation.	None
A person who enters into a contract with Government does not necessarily thereby undertake any public duty, or promise to do an act in which the public are interested.	None
Section 74 occurs in Chapter 6 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 which reads Of the consequences of breach of contract.	None
It is in fact sandwiched between Sections 73 and 75 which deal with compensation for loss or damage caused by breach of contract and compensation for damage which a party may sustain through nonfulfillment of a contract after such party rightfully rescinds such contract.	None
It is important to note that like Sections 73 and 75, compensation is payable for breach of contract under Section 74 only where damage or loss is caused by such breach.	None
In Fateh Chand v. Balkishan Das, 1964 SCR (1) 515, this Court held The section is clearly an attempt to eliminate the somewhat elaborate refinements made under the English common law in distinguishing between stipulations providing for payment of liquidated damages and stipulations in the nature of penalty.	None
Under the common law a genuine preestimate of damages by mutual agreement is regarded as a stipulation naming liquidated damages and binding between the parties a stipulation in a contract in terrorem is a penalty and the Court refuses to enforce it, awarding to the aggrieved party only reasonable compensation.	None
The Indian Legislature has sought to cut across the web of rules and presumptions under the English common law, by enacting a uniform principle applicable to all stipulations naming amounts to be paid in case of breach, and stipulations by way of penaltySection 74 of the Indian Contract Act deals with the measure of damages in two classes of cases (i) where the contract names a sum to be paid in case of breach and (ii) where the contract contains any other stipulation by way of penalty.	None
We are in the present case not concerned to decide whether a covenant of forfeiture of deposit for due performance of a contract falls within the first class.	None
The measure of damages in the case of breach of a stipulation by way of penalty is by Section 74 reasonable compensation not exceeding the penalty stipulated for.	None
In assessing damages the Court has, subject to the limit of the penalty stipulated, jurisdiction to award such compensation as it deems reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the case.	None
Jurisdiction of the Court to award compensation in case of breach of contract is unqualified except as to the maximum stipulated but compensation has to be reasonable, and that imposes upon the Court duty to award compensation according to settled principles.	None
The section undoubtedly says that the aggrieved party is entitled to receive compensation from the party who has broken the contract, whether or not actual damage or loss is proved to have been caused by the breach.	None
Thereby it merely dispenses with proof of actual loss or damages it does not justify the award of compensation when in consequence of the breach no legal injury at all has resulted, because compensation for breach of contract can be awarded to make good loss or damage which naturally arose in the usual course of things, or which the parties knew when they made the contract, to be likely to result from the breach.(At page 526, 527)Section 74 declares the law as to liability upon breach of contract where compensation is by agreement of the parties predetermined, or where there is a stipulation by way of penalty.	None
But the application of the enactment is not restricted to cases where the aggrieved party claims relief as a plaintiff.	None
The section does not confer a special benefit upon any party it merely declares the law that notwithstanding any term in the contract predetermining damages or providing for forfeiture of any property by way of penalty, the court will award to the party aggrieved only reasonable compensation not exceeding the amount named or penalty stipulated.	None
The jurisdiction of the court is not determined by the accidental circumstance of the party in default being a plaintiff or a defendant in a suit.	None
Use of the expression to receive from the party who has broken the contract does not predicate that the jurisdiction of the court to adjust amounts which have been paid by the party in default cannot be exercised in dealing with the claim of the party complaining of breach of contract.	None
The court has to adjudge in every case reasonable compensation to which the plaintiff is entitled from the defendant on breach of the contract.	None
Such compensation has to be ascertained having regard to the conditions existing on the date of the breach.(At page 530) Similarly, in Maula Bux v. Union of India (UOI), 1970 (1) SCR 928 , it was held Forfeiture of earnest money under a contract for sale of propertymovable or immovableif the amount is reasonable, does not fall within Section 74.	None
That has been decided in several cases Kunwar Chiranjit Singh v. Har Swarup, A.I.R.1926 P.C.1 Roshan Lal v. The Delhi Cloth and General Mills Company Ltd., Delhi, I.L.R. All.166 Muhammad Habibullah v. Muhammad Shafi, I.L.R. All.	None
324 Bishan Chand v. Radha Kishan Das, I.D. 19 All. 49.	None
These cases are easily explained, for forfeiture of a reasonable amount paid as earnest money does not amount to imposing a penalty.	None
But if forfeiture is of the nature of penalty, Section 74 applies.	None
Where under the terms of the contract the party in breach has undertaken to pay a sum of money or to forfeit a sum of money which he has already paid to the party complaining of a breach of contract, the undertaking is of the nature of a penalty.	None
Counsel for the Union, however, urged that in the present case Rs. 10,000/ in respect of the potato contract and Rs. 8,500 in respect of the poultry contract were genuine preestimates of damages which the Union was likely to suffer as a result of breach of contract, and the plaintiff was not entitled to any relief against forfeiture.	None
Reliance in support of this contention was placed upon the expression (used in Section 74 of the Contract Act), the party complaining of the breach is entitled, whether or not actual damage or loss is proved to have been caused thereby, to receive from the party who has broken the contract reasonable compensation.	None
It is true that in every case of breach of contract the person aggrieved by the breach is not required to prove actual loss or damage suffered by him before he can claim a decree, and the Court is competent to award reasonable compensation in case of breach even if no actual damage is proved to have been suffered in consequence of the breach of contract.	None
But the expression whether or not actual damage or loss is proved to have been caused thereby is intended to cover different classes of contracts which come before the Courts.	None
In case of breach of some contracts it may be impossible for the Court to assess compensation arising from breach, while in other cases compensation can be calculated in accordance with established rules.	None
Where the Court is unable to assess the compensation, the sum named by the parties if it be regarded as a genuine preestimate may be taken into consideration as the measure of reasonable compensation, but not if the sum named is in the nature of a penalty.	None
Where loss in terms of money can be determined, the party claiming compensation must prove the loss suffered by him.	None
In the present case, it was possible for the Government of India to lead evidence to prove the rates at which potatoes, poultry, eggs and fish were purchased by them when the plaintiff failed to deliver regularly and fully the quantities stipulated under the terms of the contracts and after the contracts were terminated.	None
They could have proved the rates at which they had to be purchased and also the other incidental charges incurred by them in procuring the goods contracted for.	None
But no such attempt was made.(At page 933,934)	None
In Shree Hanuman Cotton Mills and Anr.	None
v. Tata Aircraft Limited, 1970 (3) SCR 127 it was held From a review of the decisions cited above, the following principles emerge regarding earnest(1)	None
It must be given at the moment at which the contract is concluded.(2)	None
It represents a guarantee that the contract will be fulfilled or, in other words, earnest is given to bind the contract.(3)	None
It is part of the purchase price when the transaction is carried out.(4)	None
It is forfeited when the transaction falls through by reason of the default or failure of the purchaser.(5)	None
Unless there is anything to the contrary in the terms of the contract, on default committed by the buyer, the seller is entitled to forfeit the earnest (At page 139)The learned Attorney General very strongly urged that the pleas covered by the second contention of the appellant had never been raised in the pleadings nor in the contentions urged before the High Court.	None
The question of the quantum of earnest deposit which was forfeited being unreasonable or the forfeiture being by way of penalty, were never raised by the appellants.	None
The Attorney General also pointed out that as noted by the High Court the appellants led no evidence at all and, after abandoning the various pleas taken in the plaint, the only question pressed before the High Court was that the deposit was not by way of earnest and hence the amount could not be forfeited.	None
Unless the appellants had pleaded and established that there was unreasonableness attached to the amount required to be deposited under the contract or that the clause regarding forfeiture amounted to a stipulation by way of a penalty, the respondents had no opportunity to satisfy the Court that no question of unreasonableness or the stipulation being by way of penalty arises.	None
He further urged that the question of unreasonableness or otherwise regarding earnest money does not at all arise when it is forfeited according to the terms of the contract.	None
In our opinion the learned Attorney General is well founded in his contention that the appellants raised no such contentions covered by the second point, noted above.	None
It is therefore unnecessary for us to go into the question as to whether the amount deposited by the appellants, in this case, by way of earnest and forfeited as such, can be considered to be reasonable or not.	None
We express no opinion on the question as to whether the element of unreasonableness can ever be considered regarding the forfeiture of an amount deposited by way of earnest and if so what are the necessary factors to be taken into account in considering the reasonableness or otherwise of the amount deposited by way of earnest.	None
If the appellants were contesting the claim on any such grounds, they should have laid the foundation for the same by raising appropriate pleas and also led proper evidence regarding the same, so that the respondents would have had an opportunity of meeting such a claim.(At page 142)	None
And finally in ONGC Ltd. v. Saw Pipes Ltd., (2003) 5 SCC 705 , it was held It is apparent from the aforesaid reasoning recorded by the Arbitral Tribunal that it failed to consider Sections 73 and 74 of the Indian Contract Act and the ratio laid down in Fateh Chand case AIR 1963 SC 140 (1964) 1	None
SCR 515 at p. 526 wherein it is specifically held that jurisdiction of the court to award compensation in case of breach of contract is unqualified except as to the maximum stipulated and compensation has to be reasonable.	None
Under Section 73, when a contract has been broken, the party who suffers by such breach is entitled to receive compensation for any loss caused to him which the parties knew when they made the contract to be likely to result from the breach of it.	None
This section is to be read with Section 74, which deals with penalty stipulated in the contract, inter alia (relevant for the present case) provides that when a contract has been broken, if a sum is named in the contract as the amount to be paid in case of such breach, the party complaining of breach is entitled, whether or not actual loss is proved to have been caused, thereby to receive from the party who has broken the contract reasonable compensation not exceeding the amount so named.	None
Section 74 emphasizes that in case of breach of contract, the party complaining of the breach is entitled to receive reasonable compensation whether or not actual loss is proved to have been caused by such breach.	None
Therefore, the emphasis is on reasonable compensation.	None
If the compensation named in the contract is by way of penalty, consideration would be different and the party is only entitled to reasonable compensation for the loss suffered.	None
But if the compensation named in the contract for such breach is genuine preestimate of loss which the parties knew when they made the contract to be likely to result from the breach of it, there is no question of proving such loss or such party is not required to lead evidence to prove actual loss suffered by him.67In our view, in such a contract, it would be difficult to prove exact loss or damage which the parties suffer because of the breach thereof.	None
In such a situation, if the parties have preestimated such loss after clear understanding, it would be totally unjustified to arrive at the conclusion that the party who has committed breach of the contract is not liable to pay compensation.	None
It would be against the specific provisions of Sections 73 and 74 of the Indian Contract Act.	None
There was nothing on record that compensation contemplated by the parties was in any way unreasonable.	None
It has been specifically mentioned that it was an agreed genuine preestimate of damages duly agreed by the parties.	None
It was also mentioned that the liquidated damages are not by way of penalty.	None
It was also provided in the contract that such damages are to be recovered by the purchaser from the bills for payment of the cost of material submitted by the contractor.	None
No evidence is led by the claimant to establish that the stipulated condition was by way of penalty or the compensation contemplated was, in any way, unreasonable.	None
There was no reason for the Tribunal not to rely upon the clear and unambiguous terms of agreement stipulating preestimate damages because of delay in supply of goods.	None
Further, while extending the time for delivery of the goods, the respondent was informed that it would be required to pay stipulated damages.68.	None
From the aforesaid discussions, it can be held that(1)	None
Terms of the contract are required to be taken into consideration before arriving at the conclusion whether the party claiming damages is entitled to the same.(2) If the terms are clear and unambiguous stipulating the liquidated damages in case of the breach of the contract unless it is held that such estimate of damages compensation is unreasonable or is by way of penalty, party who has committed the breach is required to pay such compensation and that is what is provided in Section 73 of the Contract Act.(3)	None
Section 74 is to be read along with Section 73 and, therefore, in every case of breach of contract, the person aggrieved by the breach is not required to prove actual loss or damage suffered by him before he can claim a decree.	None
The court is competent to award reasonable compensation in case of breach even if no actual damage is proved to have been suffered in consequence of the breach of a contract.(4)	None
In some contracts, it would be impossible for the court to assess the compensation arising from breach and if the compensation contemplated is not by way of penalty or unreasonable, the court can award the same if it is genuine preestimate by the parties as the measure of reasonable compensation.	None
It will be seen that when it comes to forfeiture of earnest money, in Fateh Chands case, counsel for the appellant conceded on facts that Rs.1,000/ deposited as earnest money could be forfeited.	None
(See 1964 (1) SCR Page 515 at 525 and 531).	None
Shree Hanuman Cotton Mills Another which was so heavily relied by the Division Bench again was a case where the appellants conceded that they committed breach of contract.	None
Further, the respondents also pleaded that the appellants had to pay them a sum of Rs.42,499/ for loss and damage sustained by them.	None
(See 1970 (3) SCR 127 at Page 132).	None
This being the fact situation, only two questions were argued before the Supreme Court (1) that the amount paid by the plaintiff is not earnest money and (2) that forfeiture of earnest money can be legal only if the amount is considered reasonable.	None
(at page 133).	None
Both questions were answered against the appellant.	None
In deciding question two against the appellant, this Court held But, as we have already mentioned, we do not propose to go into those aspects in the case on hand.	None
As mentioned earlier, the appellants never raised any contention that the forfeiture of the amount amounted to a penalty or that the amount forfeited is so large that the forfeiture is bad in law.	None
Nor have they raised any contention that the amount of deposit is so unreasonable and therefore forfeiture of the entire amount is not justified.	None
The decision in Maula Buxs 19701SCR928 had no occasion to consider the question of reasonableness or otherwise of the earnest deposit being forfeited.	None
Because, from the said judgment it is clear that this Court did not agree with the view of the High Court that the deposits made, and which were under consideration, were paid as earnest money.	None
It is under those circumstances that this Court proceeded to consider the applicability of Section 74 of the Contract Act.	None
(At page 143) From the above, it is clear that this Court held that Maula Buxs case was not, on facts, a case that related to earnest money.	Reasoning
Consequently, the observation in Maula Bux that forfeiture of earnest money under a contract if reasonable does not fall within Section 74, and would fall within Section 74 only if earnest money is considered a penalty is not on a matter that directly arose for decision in that case.	Reasoning
The law laid down by a Bench of 5 Judges in Fateh Chands case is that all stipulations naming amounts to be paid in case of breach would be covered by Section 74.	Reasoning
This is because Section 74 cuts across the rules of the English Common Law by enacting a uniform principle that would apply to all amounts to be paid in case of breach, whether they are in the nature of penalty or otherwise.	Reasoning
It must not be forgotten that as has been stated above, forfeiture of earnest money on the facts in Fateh Chands case was conceded.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, it would therefore be correct to say that as earnest money is an amount to be paid in case of breach of contract and named in the contract as such, it would necessarily be covered by Section 74.	Reasoning
It must, however, be pointed out that in cases where a public auction is held, forfeiture of earnest money may take place even before an agreement is reached, as DDA is to accept the bid only after the earnest money is paid.	None
In the present case, under the terms and conditions of auction, the highest bid (along with which earnest money has to be paid) may well have been rejected.	None
In such cases, Section 74 may not be attracted on its plain language because it applies only when a contract has been broken.	None
In the present case, forfeiture of earnest money took place longafter an agreement had been reached.	None
It is obvious that the amount sought to be forfeited on the facts of the present case is sought to be forfeited without any loss being shown.	None
In fact it has been shown that far from suffering any loss, DDA has received a much higher amount on reauction of the same plot of land.	None
On a conspectus of the above authorities, the law on compensation for breach of contract under Section 74 can be stated to be as follows Where a sum is named in a contract as a liquidated amount payable by way of damages, the party complaining of a breach can receive as reasonable compensation such liquidated amount only if it is a genuine preestimate of damages fixed by both parties and found to be such by the Court.	None
In other cases, where a sum is named in a contract as a liquidated amount payable by way of damages, only reasonable compensation can be awarded not exceeding the amount so stated.	None
Similarly, in cases where the amount fixed is in the nature of penalty, only reasonable compensation can be awarded not exceeding the penalty so stated.	None
In both cases, the liquidated amount or penalty is the upper limit beyond which the Court cannot grant reasonable compensation.	None
Reasonable compensation will be fixed on well known principles that are applicable to the law of contract, which are to be found inter alia in Section 73 of the Contract Act.	None
Since Section 74 awards reasonable compensation for damage or loss caused by a breach of contract, damage or loss caused is a sine qua non for the applicability of the Section.	None
The Section applies whether a person is a plaintiff or a defendant in a suit.	None
The sum spoken of may already be paid or be payable in future.	None
The expression whether or not actual damage or loss is proved to have been caused thereby means that where it is possible to prove actual damage or loss, such proof is not dispensed with.	None
It is only in cases where damage or loss is difficult or impossible to prove that the liquidated amount named in the contract, if a genuine preestimate of damage or loss, can be awarded.	None
Section 74 will apply to cases of forfeiture of earnest money under a contract.	None
Where, however, forfeiture takes place under the terms and conditions of a public auction before agreement is reached, Section 74 would have no application.	None
The Division Bench has gone wrong in principle.	None
As has been pointed out above, there has been no breach of contract by the appellant.	Reasoning
Further, we cannot accept the view of the Division Bench that the fact that the DDA made a profit from reauction is irrelevant, as that would fly in the face of the most basic principle on the award of damages  namely, that compensation can only be given for damage or loss suffered.	Reasoning
If damage or loss is not suffered, the law does not provide for a windfall.45.	Reasoning
A great deal of the argument before us turned on notings in files that were produced during crossexamination of various witnesses.	Reasoning
We have not referred to any of these notings and, consequently, to any case law cited by both parties as we find it unnecessary for the decision of this case.46.	Reasoning
Mr. Sharan submitted that in case we were against him, the earnest money that should be refunded should only be refunded with 7 per annum and not 9 per annum interest as was done in other cases.	Reasoning
We are afraid we are not able to agree as others were offered the refund of earnest money way back in 1989 with 7 per annum interest which they accepted.	Reasoning
The DDA having chosen to fight the present appellant tooth and nail even on refund of earnest money, when there was no breach of contract or loss caused to it, stands on a different footing.	Reasoning
We, therefore, turn down this plea as well.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeal is allowed.	Decision
The judgment and order of the Single Judge is restored.	Decision
Parties will bear their own costs.	Decision
