 Sarkar, J.1.	None
The question in this appeal is, what is the meaning to be ascribed to the word allotment occurring in S. 75(1) of the Companies Act, 1956?	Issue
That section requires a company to file a return of the allotment of its shares with the Registrar within a month of the making of the allotment.	None
The appellant who has been accepted as a shareholder in the respondent Company for the purposes of the present proceedings complained that the Company had not filed the return required by that section, and, therefore, moved the High Court at Calcutta under S. 614 of the Act for an order requiring it to do so.2.	Facts
The shares with which this case is concerned had been forfeited by the Company under its articles.	None
A reference to some of these articles is necessary before we proceed further.	None
Articles 21 of the Articles of Association of the Company authorised its Committee to expel or suspend a member in certain events.	None
The present is not a case involving an exercise of power under this article.	None
Articles 22, 24 and 27 are in these terms Article 22	None
Any member who has been declared a defaulter by reason of his failure to fulfil any engagement between himself and any other member or members and who fails to fulfil such engagement within six months from the date upon which he has been so declared defaulter shall at the expiration of such period of six calendar months automatically cease to be a member.	None
Article 24 Upon any member ceasing to be a member under the provisions of Art.	None
22 hereof	None
and upon any resolution being passed by the Committee expelling any member under the provisions of Art. 21 hereof or upon any member being adjudicated insolvent the share held by such member shall ipso facto be forfeited.	None
Article 27 Any share so forfeited shall be deemed to be the property of the Association, and the Committee shall sell, reallot and otherwise dispose of the same in such manner to the best advantage for the satisfaction of all debts which may then be due and owing either to the Association or any of its members arising out of transactions or dealings in stocks and shares.3.	None
The appellants contention is that the Company from time to time forfeited various shares under these articles and it appeared from its balance sheet that seventy of such forfeited shares had been reissued at a nominal face value of Rs. 1,000/	Arguments of Petitioner
but no return of such reissue of the forfeited shares had been filed by the Company.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Company in its affidavit in answer to the petition admitted these facts.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also said that these forfeited shares had been issued for much large sums but nothing turns on that in this case.	None
Now S. 75, so far as material for our purposes, is as follows S. 75.	None
(1)Whenever a company having a share capital makes any allotment of its shares, the company shall, within one month thereafter(a) file with the Registrar a return of the allotments, stating the number and nominal amount of the shares comprised in the allotment, the names, addresses and occupations of the allottees, and the amount, if any, paid or due and payable on each shareX X XX4.	None
Nothing in this section shall apply to the issue and allotment by a company of shares which under the provisions of its articles were forfeited for nonpayment of calls.	Reasoning
The appellant contends that a return should have been filed of the reissued forfeited shares under this section.	None
The contention of the Company is that the reissue of forfeited shares does not amount to allotment of shares and, therefore, it was not required to file any return in respect of such reissued shares under the section.	Arguments of Respondent
This contention was accepted by the learned Judge of the High Court before whom the appellants petition was first moved and also by the learned Judges of the Division Bench of that Court on appeal from the decision of the learned trial Judge.5.	None
We agree with the learned Judges of the High court that a reissue of a forfeited share is not an allotment of share within S. 75 (1).	Reasoning
The Word allotment has not been defined in the Companies Act either in our country or in England.	Reasoning
But we think that the meaning of that word is well understood and no decision has been brought to our notice to indicate that any doubt has ever been entertained as to it.	Reasoning
As Chitty J. put it in In re, Florence Land and Public Works Co. (1885) 29 Ch D 421 at p. 426	None
What is termed allotment is generally neither more nor less than the acceptance by the company of the offer to take shares.	None
To take the Common case, the offer is to take a certain number of shares or such a less number of shares as may be allotted.	None
That offer is accepted by the allotment either of the total number mentioned in the offer or a less number, to be taken by the person who made the offer.	None
This constitutes a binding contract to take that number according to the offer and acceptance.	None
To my mind there is no magic whatever in the term allotment as used in these circumstances.	None
It is said that the allotment is an appropriation of a specific number of shares.	None
It is an appropriation, not of specific shares, but of a certain number of shares.6.	None
The process described by Chitty J. is very familiar in Company law.	None
Under the Act, a company having share capital is required to state in its memorandum the amount of that capital and the division thereof into shares of a fixed amount see S. 13(4).	None
This is what is called the authorised capital of the company.	None
Then the Company proceeds to issue the shares depending on the condition of the market.	None
That only means inviting applications for these shares.	None
When the applications are received, it accepts them and this is what is generally called allotment.	None
No doubt there may be an allotment of shares without an application but no instance exists where that word is used to describe a transaction whereby one becomes a shareholder otherwise than by appropriation to him of a share out of the previously unappropriated share capital.7.	None
So Farwell L. J. said in Mosely v. Koffyfontein Mines Ltd., 19111 Ch 73 at p. 84	None
As regards the construction of these particular articles it is plain that the words creation, issue, and allotment are used with the three different meanings familiar to business people as well as to lawyers.	None
There are three steps with regard to new capital first, it is created till it is created the capital does not exist at all.	None
When it is created it may remain unissued for years, as indeed it was here the market did not allow of a favorable opportunity of placing it.	None
When it is issued it may be issued on such terms as appear for the moment expedient.	None
Next comes allotment.	None
To take the words of Stirling J. in Spitzel v. Chinese Corporation, Ltd., (1899) 80 LT 347 at p. 351, he says What it is an allot of shares?	None
Broadly speaking, it is an appropriation by the directors or the managing body of the company of shares to a particular person.	None
Lord Greene M. R. observed in In re, V. G. M. Holdings Ltd., 19421 Ch 235 it seems to me that the word purchase cannot with propriety be applied to the legal transaction under which a person, by the machinery of application and allotment, becomes a shareholder in the company.	None
He does not purchase anything when he does that.	None
Mr. Wynn Parry endeavoured heroically to establish the proposition that a share before issue was an existing article of property, that it was an existing bundle of rights which a shareholder could properly be said to be purchasing when he acquired it by subscription in the usual way.	None
I am unable to accept that view.	None
A share is a chose in action, A chose in action implies the existence of some person entitled to the rights which are rights in action as distinct from rights in possession, and, until the share is issued, no such person exists.	None
Putting it in a nutshell, the difference between the issue of a share to a subscriber and the purchase of a share from an existing shareholder is the difference between the creation and the transfer of a chose in action.8.	None
It is beyond doubt from the authorities to which we have earlier referred, and there are many more which could be cited to show the same position, that in Company law allotment means the appropriation out of the previously unappropriated capital of a company, of a certain number of shares to a person.	Reasoning
Till such allotment the shares do not exist as such.	Reasoning
It is on allotment in this sense that the shares come into existence.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the appellant has not been able to cite any case where the word allotment has been used to describe a transaction with regard to an existing share, that is , a share previously brought into existence by appropriation to a person out of the authorised capital.	Reasoning
In every case the words allotment of shares have been used to indicate the creation of shares by appropriation out of the unappropriated share capital to a particular person.	Reasoning
We find no reason why the word allotment in S. 75 should have a different sense.	Reasoning
It is said that subsec.	Reasoning
(5) of S. 75 furnishes such a reason.	None
We will deal with that argument later.	None
Our attention has not been drawn to any other provision in our Companies Act which would support the contention that the Act includes within the word allotment a transaction with a share after it has been first created by appropriation out of the authorised share capital to a particular individual.	Reasoning
As the learned Judges of the High Court pointed out, S. 75 occurs in Part III of the Act which deals with Prospectus And Allotment.	Reasoning
And Other Matters Relating To Issue Of Shares Or Debentures.	Reasoning
Sections 69 to 75 are classed under the subheading Allotment and the only kind of allotment that is dealt with in these sections is the appropriation of shares to individuals out of the unappropriated share capital of the company.	Reasoning
In these circumstances it would be impossible to give to the word allotment in S. 75(1) a different meaning.9.	None
Now it is quite clear that when a share is forfeited and reissued it is not allotment in the sense of appropriation of share out of the authorised and unappropriated capital so as to bring the shares into existence.	None
In the present case both sides proceeded on the basis that the articles of the Company dealing with forfeiture of shares which we have earlier set out are valid articles.	None
In other words, it has not been disputed that the Company may validly forfeit shares in terms of these articles.	Reasoning
We accept that basis and proceed on the assumption that it is correct.	None
In the High Court at Calcutta there was a difference of opinion as to the validity of these articles but the later view is that the articles are valid.	None
The reason for the view has thus been put in the latest case in the Calcutta High Court, namely, Calcutta Stock Exchange Association Ltd. v. S. N. Nundy and Co., ILR (1950) 1 Cal 235.Harries C. J. dealing with the very articles with which we are concerned observed at p. 264, In the present case, the Articles relating to forfeiture do not, in my view, offend against the provisions of the Companies Act, as they do not contemplate a reduction of capital or a purchase of shares or a trafficking in shares.	None
Now, obviously, if upon forfeiture, the shares had ceased to exist qua shares and become merged in the unissued capital of the Company, then there would have been a reduction of the capital and such a forfeiture would have been invalid.	None
The reason why it was held that the forfeiture was valid was that on such forfeiture all that happened was that the right of the particular shareholder disappeared but the share considered as a unit of issued capital continued to exist and was kept in suspense until another shareholder was found for it see Naresh Chandra Sanyal v. Ramani Kanta, ILR (1945) 2 Cal 105 (AIR 1949 Cal 360 ).	None
We have to examine the present case on this basis.10.If, therefore, the shares which the Company forfeited have to be considered as shares already created and as continuing in existence as such inspite of the forfeiture, obviously they could not be allotted in the sense in which that word is understood in the Company law as we have earlier stated.	None
In Morrison v. Trustees etc. Insurance Corporation, (1899) 68 LJ Ch 11 the articles of the Company gave power to forfeit shares for nonpayment of calls and further provided that any share so forfeited shall be deemed to be the property of the Company and the directors may sell, reallot or otherwise dispose of the same in such manner as they think fit.	None
It was held that the Company could reissue the forfeited shares giving credit for the money already received in respect of them.	None
The contention that the transaction amounted to the issue of a share at a discount was rejected.	None
VaughanWilliams L. J. observed, I do not like the use of the word issue with reference to the transaction with regard to these shares.	None
If they were being issued, the argument for the appellant might possibly be right but they are not being issued.	None
When we look at the articles we see that what takes place on a forfeiture of shares is that the power of transferring them passes from the original shareholders to the company and the Company can then transfer the shares subject to the same rights and liabilities as if they had not been forfeited.	None
To the same effect are the observations of Bacon V. C. in In re, Exchange Banking Co. Ltd., Ramwells case (1881) 50 LJ 827.	None
Quite clearly, the view well accepted in company Courts has been that issue of the forfeited shares was not allotment of them but only a sale.	None
If it were not so, the forfeiture itself would be in valid as involving an illegal reduction of capital.	Reasoning
If the reissue of a forfeited share is only its sale, then it is not an allotment and that being so, no question of filing any return in respect of such reissue arises.11.	Reasoning
It remains now to deal with subs.	None
(5) of S. 75.	Reasoning
That does create a difficulty.	None
It provides that no return need be filed in respect of allotment of shares forfeited for nonpayment of calls.	None
It gives rise to an argument that the Act contemplates an allotment of shares forfeited for nonpayment of calls for otherwise it would not be necessary to provide that returns in respect of such allotment need not be field.	None
It is said that that being so, the word allotment in S. 75(1) should be understood as including the issue of shares forfeited for other reasons, for there is no reason to make any distinction between shares forfeited for nonpayment of calls and those forfeited for other reasons in the present context.	None
This argument is no doubt legitimate.	None
But having given it our best consideration we have come to the conclusion that it should be rejected.	Reasoning
We think that subsec.	Reasoning
(5)owes its origin to a confusion of ideas.	Reasoning
Apart from it, all other provisions of the Act clearly contemplate by allotment the creation of shares out of the authorized and unappropriated capital of the Company and not reissue of shares already created by allotment in the manner aforesaid but subsequently forfeited.	Reasoning
There would be no justification for altering the meaning of that word in any other part of the Act because of the solitary provision occurring in subs (5)of S. 75.The Companies Act in force before Act of 1956 was the Act of 1913.	Reasoning
Section 104 (1) of that Act corresponded to S. 75 (1) of the present Act.	Reasoning
In 1936 there were large amendments made in the 1913 Act.	Reasoning
Prior to these amendments there was no provision in S. 104 of the Act of 1913 corresponding to subs.	Reasoning
(5) of S. 75 of the present Act.	Reasoning
Therefore, up to 1936 there was no reason to contend that the word allotment in S. 104 (1) could at all include the reissue of a forfeited share.	Reasoning
The 1936 amendment added subs.	Reasoning
(4) to S. 104 and that subsection contained provision similar to subs.	Reasoning
(5) of S. 75 of the present Act.	Reasoning
We do not think that it could be legitimately contended that by the amendment of 1936 the meaning of the word allotment in S. 104(1) was altered.	Reasoning
That being so, the word allotment in S. 75 (1) must be understood without reference to subs.	Reasoning
(5), in the same way as that word in S. 104(1) had to be understood without reference to subs.	Reasoning
(4) of that section.	Reasoning
It is safer to read subs.	Reasoning
(5) of S. 75 as having been enacted ex abundanti cautela, that is to say, to prevent any argument being raised that a return has to be filed of the reissued shares forfeited for nonpayment of calls.	Reasoning
We also agree with the view expressed in the High Court that the reason why only forfeiture for nonpayment of calls was mentioned in S. 104 (4) of the Act of 1913 and S. 75 (5) of the present Act is that there has always been a great deal of doubt, as will appear from the difference of opinion in the Calcutta High Court to which we have earlier referred, as to whether there can be any forfeiture of shares except for nonpayment of calls which latter case had been expressly provided for by the statute.	Reasoning
The other cases of forfeiture had apparently not been mentioned because if they had been it could have been legitimately argued that the legislature considered such forfeiture valid and the legislature did not want to give support to that argument.12.	Reasoning
We think for these reasons that the appeal fails and we dismiss it with costs.13.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
