 Leave granted.	None
This appeal is directed against the judgment dated 10th July, 2015 passed by the High Court of Karnataka at Bengaluru in Miscellaneous First Appeal No. 1045 of 2011.	Issue
By the said judgment, the High Court has allowed the appeal filed by the Insurance Company exonerating it from the liability and set aside the judgment of the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, Chickballapur awarding compensation to the claimants.	Facts
Pursuant to a complaint lodged on 13th July, 2004 by the appellant No. 1 herein in P.S. Cheluru stating that her husband Narasa Reddy left home at 7 p.m. on 12th July, 2004 for supplying milk to the Chakavelu Dairy and did not return.	Facts
In the early morning on the next day it was learnt that her husband was crushed under a ground levelling tractor bearing registration	Facts
No.	Facts
TN 38 B 5899 at Brahamanara Tank, near Maddamma Temple on ChakaveluBuddalavara Palli Road causing his instantaneous death on the spot due to high speed and negligent driving by the driver of the tractor.	Facts
Accordingly, FIR has been registered in Crime No. 28/2004 under Sections 279 and 304(A), IPC.	Facts
Subsequently, two claim petitions have been filed one by the wife and son of the deceased and the other by the father of the deceased, claiming compensation.	Facts
Learned Senior Civil Judge and Member of Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, Chickballapur framed the issues and arrived at a conclusion that the deceased died in the said motor accident due to rash and negligent driving of the respondent No. 2 herein (owner of the tractor).	Facts
Accordingly, the Tribunal has awarded a compensation of Rs.4,31,000/ to the legal representatives of the deceased i.e. Appellants herein and Rs.10,000/ to the father of the deceased on the head of loss of love and affection.	Facts
The tribunal has also directed that the Insurance Company (Respondent No.1) and owner of the tractor (Respondent No. 2) are jointly and severally liable to pay the said compensation amounts with an interest	Facts
6 p.a. w.e.f.	Facts
the date of claim petition till the date of realization and they shall deposit the said amounts within three months from the date of its order.	Facts
Aggrieved by the judgment of the Tribunal awarding compensation to the appellants herein, the Insurance Company assailed the same before the High Court in Miscellaneous First Appeal No. 1045 of 2011.	Facts
However, the High Court formed the view that the claim of legal heirs of the deceased was based on false grounds.	Facts
By the judgment impugned herein, the High Court declared the judgment of the Tribunal in awarding compensation to the legal heirs of the deceased as erroneous and set aside the same absolving the insurance company from the liability.	Facts
Consequently, the legal heirs of the deceased being appellants herein are before us in the present appeal.	Facts
We have heard learned counsel on either side and carefully perused the material on record.	None
Learned counsel appearing for the appellants submitted that the High Court has committed a serious error of law by disproving the specific finding recorded by the Tribunal based on the valid material on record.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is clear from the evidence of eyewitness Eashwara ReddyPW3 who was a passerby at the relevant time that the accident occurred due to rash driving in negligent manner by the driver of the vehicle while the victim was walking on the footpath.	Arguments of Petitioner
In spite of cogent and reliable evidence adduced by PW3, the High Court discredited the same and wrongly presumed that the deceased was travelling in the tractor by sitting on its blade, though there was no evidence let in by the Insurance Company on that aspect.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even in the absence of examination of the driver of the tractor, though nothing was adversely elicited in the crossexamination of prosecution witnesses, the High Court ignoring the settled principles of law based its judgment only on certain presumptions, conjectures and surmises which requires interference of this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel appearing for the Insurance Company, however, supported the judgment of the High Court and submitted that the High Court was right in not relying on the evidence of PW3.	Arguments of Respondent
The theory that the deceased was walking on the footpath at the time of accident, was introduced by the appellants only with a view to claim compensation.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court assessed the aforesaid circumstances in a proper perspective and rightly observed that the appellants are not entitled for compensation.	Arguments of Respondent
Having given our anxious consideration to the rival submissions advanced by the respective counsel and having perused the material on record.	Reasoning
There is no dispute about the fact that at the time of occurrence the tractor which involved in the accident was being driven by the driverowner in a rash and negligent manner.	Reasoning
The evidence of PW3, an independent eyewitness to the incident, in all probabilities, makes it clear that the deceased had died because of the accident caused by the tractor that was being driven in a rash and negligent manner while the victim was going to his home as a pedestrian on the footpath.	Reasoning
The FIR also discloses the very fact.	Reasoning
At the same time, we find no material on record except the deposition of RW1, the Divisional Manager of the Insurance Company, to establish that the victim was a passenger of the tractor.	Reasoning
A mere statement that the victim was unlawfully travelling on the tractor, without any probable evidence cannot be taken into consideration, when the evidence to the contrary is available, in the form of deposition of an independent eyewitness.	Reasoning
Notably enough, the driverownerinsured of the tractor was not examined as witness.	Reasoning
It is also manifest that he did not prefer appeal against the verdict of the Tribunal which in other words supports the case of appellantsclaimants.	Reasoning
Considering the circumstances stated above, in our opinion, the conclusion reached by the Tribunal is a possible view, which could not have been reversed by the High Court by merely making sweeping observations in a casual manner without there being any reliable evidence.	Reasoning
We, therefore, afford our concurrence to the judgment arrived at by the Tribunal.	Reasoning
Resultantly, as held by the Tribunal, the respondents are jointly and severally liable to pay the total amount of compensation i.e. Rs.4,31,000/ to the appellants herein along with interest 6 p.a.	Decision
from the date of filing of claim petition till the date of realization.	Decision
For all the aforesaid reasons, the appeal stands allowed in the aforestated terms, however, with no order as to costs.	Decision
