 K. Agrawal, J. Leave granted.	None
This appeal is directed against the final judgment and order dated 12.01.2015 passed by the High Court of Karnataka at Bengaluru in C.M.P. No. 35 of 2014 whereby learned single Judge of the High Court allowed the petition filed by the respondent No. 1 Company for appointment of an arbitrator for resolution of the dispute between the appellantCompany and respondent No. 1Company.	Issue
Brief facts Respondent No. 1the Contractee Company was awarded a Contract for Site Grading, Construction of Roads, Water Drains and Compound Wall for Aromatic Complex at Mangalore in Mangalore SEZ by the appellantContractor on 17.03.2008.	Facts
The total contract value as per the Letter of Acceptance (LOA) was Rs. 163,25,68,576/ which was subsequently revised to Rs. 195,68,24,399.02/ vide letter dated 20.09.2010 and the completion period was also extended upto 30.11.2010.(b)	Facts
On 21.09.2012, the Contractee Company submitted a No Dues No Claim Certificate certifying the payment of all the bills and in total settlement of all the claims whatsoever against the Contract.	Facts
Thereafter, on 10.10.2012, the appellant hereinthe Contractor Company made a payment of the final bill of Rs. 20.34 crores to the Contractee Company.(c)	Facts
Subsequently, on 24.10.2012, the Contractee Company withdrew letter dated 21.09.2012 for No Dues No Claim Certificate stating that it was a prerequisite condition for release of their long due legitimate payment against the works executed under the Contract and the same was furnished by the Contractee Company under duress and coercion of the appellantContractor.(d)	None
The ContracteeCompany, vide letter dated 12.01.2013 to the appellantContractor, submitted a claim of Rs. 96,88,48,642.00 for the losses incurred during execution of the contract at Mangalore.	None
On 19.06.2013, the appellantContractor issued a Completion Certificate stating that the works awarded under the Contract have been executed and completed in all respects and no claim certificate has also been submitted by the ContracteeCompany.	None
After several communication in writing, the appellantContractor, vide letter dated 25.07.2013, denied the claim of the contracteeCompany.(e) Vide letter dated 14.09.2013, the contracteeCompany sent a notice to the appellantContractor for resolving the dispute between the parties through Arbitration as envisaged under Article 9.0.2.0 to the Contract and appointed Mr. K. Mohandas, Former General Manager (Law) SBI as its Arbitrator.	Facts
The appellantContractor, vide letter dated 18.10.2013 denied the request of the contracteeCompany as not tenable in law.(f) Being aggrieved by the decision of the appellantContractor in not referring the dispute to Arbitration, the contracteeCompany preferred a C.M.P. No. 35 of 2014 before the High Court of Karnataka at Bangalore.(g) Learned single Judge of the High Court, vide judgment and order dated 12.01.2015, allowed the petition filed by the contracteeCompany.(h) Being aggrieved by the order dated 12.01.2015, the appellantContactor has filed this appeal by way of special leave before this Court.	Facts
Heard Mr. P.S. Narasimha, learned senior counsel for the appellantCompany and Mr. P. Vinay Kumar for the Respondents.	None
Point for consideration The only point for consideration before this Court is whether the respondentContractee Company has made out a case for referring the dispute to Arbitration?	None
5 Rival Submissions Learned senior counsel for the Contractorthe appellant Company strenuously contended that the High Court erred in holding that the contracteeCompany established a case to show that there was a genuine and serious dispute regarding the claim and that the claim that No Dues Certificate	Arguments of Petitioner
No Claim Certificate was issued under duress coercion is erroneous and unsustainable.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned senior counsel further contended that there was no withholding of payment and the extension was granted subject to the contracteeCompanys request and the contract does not provide for escalation of costs.	None
Learned senior counsel further contended that the delay in payment does not arise at all because as per Clause 6.4.0.0, there was no obligation cast upon the Contractor to pay the RA Bills in full but it was to be done merely on the assessment of the Engineerin charge.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court erred in referring to few letters exchanged much prior to the Final Bill.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact, the alleged claims were never brought up at the time of issuance of Final Bill or No Dues Certificate on 21.09.2012 and now at this stage it is not open for the contracteeCompany to raise the issue of losses incurred during the execution of the Contract.	None
Learned senior counsel finally contended that when both the parties to a contract confirm in writing that the contract has been fully and finally discharged by performance of all obligations and there are no outstanding claims or disputes, court will not refer the subsequent claim or dispute to arbitration.	None
There was complete accord and satisfaction of the contract between the parties and nothing further was left to be done by either parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court was not right in allowing the petition filed by the contracteeCompany and no case is made out for referring the dispute to Arbitration and also for the payment of the alleged amount to the contracteeCompany.	None
Per contra, learned counsel for the contracteeRespondent No. 1 herein submitted that during the execution of Contract, the contractee Company raised Running Account Bills (RA Bills) to the ContractorCompany for the expenses incurred towards carrying out the construction work but the same were cleared with inordinate delay and even the final bill to the tune of Rs. 20.34 crores was released by the appellant Contractor only when the contractee Company furnished No Dues No Claim Certificate dated 21.09.2012.	Arguments of Respondent
Upon submitting the above Certificate, the appellantContractor issued a Completion Certificate approving the work carried out by the contractee under the Contract.	None
Learned counsel for the contracteeCompany further submitted that since the appellantContractor was not clearing the legitimate and genuine dues payable under the RA Bills and was always at the mercy of the appellantContractor for the release of payment from the very beginning of the Contract, the last payment of Rs. 20.34 crores and the release of performance bank guarantee was deliberately withheld by the appellantContractor.	None
The work got completed on 30.06.2011 and it was only after the submission of NoDues Certificate on 21.09.2012, the final payment was released.	None
Due to nonpayment of RA Bills on time, the contracteeCompany was under severe financial crunch and could not have refused to issue the No Dues Certificate which was issued under duress and has no meaning in the eyes of law.	None
Learned counsel further submitted that it is prima facie evident that there is a genuine and serious dispute between the parties which requires the appointment of an Arbitrator under the clauses of the Contract to adjudicate upon the claims made by the contractee and it will cause grave injustice to the party if the claims are not adjudicated in terms of the Contract.	None
Learned counsel further submitted that under these circumstances, the withdrawal of No Dues No Claim Certificate, which was given under duress, is not an afterthought and in a number of decisions of this Court it has been held that if a party who has executed the discharge agreement or discharge voucher alleges that execution of such document was on account of fraud coercion undue influence practiced by the other party then such discharge of the contract by such agreement would be rendered void and cannot be acted upon.	None
Learned counsel further submitted that the contracteeCompany could not continue with the work due to various reasons like pooja, shifting of idols, nonavailability of free encumbrance of site, obstruction in the blasting work, stoppage of hard rock blasting, issues with respect to work to be given to local contractors, nonvacation of project displaced families, permission for forest clearance, permission for shifting of wooden logs etc. and the huge expenditure as disclosed in the claim was incurred by the contracteeCompany due to the factors attributable to the appellantContractor.	Reasoning
Learned counsel finally contended that the No Dues Certificate was filed by the contracteeCompany under duress owing to their huge payment pending towards the appellantContractor which was rightly withdrawn for the losses incurred due to the appellantContractor.	None
Further, when there is an Arbitration clause in the agreement, the contractee Company has the right to invoke the same.	None
The High Court was right in allowing the petition filed by the contracteeCompany and no interference is sought for by this Court in this regard.	None
Discussion The appellant ContractorONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd. invited tender for Award of Work for Site Grading, Construction of Roads, Storm Water Drains Compound Wall for Aromatic Complex at Mangalore.	None
The bid document was issued by M s Toyo Engineering India Limited (TEIL)Respondent No. 2 herein on behalf of the OMPL (the contractor) being their Project Management Consultant.	None
M s ANS Constructions LimitedRespondent No. 1 herein submitted its bid on 15.11.2007.	None
Respondent No. 1 herein was awarded the Contract vide Letter of Acceptance (LOA) dated 17.03.2008.	None
The total Contract Value was estimated at Rs. 163,25,68,576/ which was later on revised to Rs. 195,68,24,399.02, pursuant thereto, the completion period was also extended upto 30.11.2010.	Facts
During the subsistence of the contract, the contracteeCompany raised RA Bills for the expenses incurred towards carrying out the construction work.	None
It is evident on record that the contracteeCompany made several requests to the appellantContractor to clear their legitimate and genuine dues payable under the Bills which was paid to them after inordinate delay.	None
It is also the claim of the contracteeCompany that the contractee was compelled to file No Dues Certificate No Claim Certificate dated 21.09.2012 in order to get the release of the Final Bill under the Contract.	None
On 10.10.2012, the contractorCompany made the payment of the final bill of Rs. 20.34 crores to the contracteeCompany.	Facts
After the release of the Final Bill, the contracteeCompany withdrew the No Dues No Claim Certificate stating that the letter dated 21.09.2012 was prerequisite condition for release of their long due legitimate payment against the works executed under the Contract and the same was furnished under duress and coercion of the appellantContractor.	Decision
Further, on 12.01.2013, the contracteeCompany submitted a claim for Rs. 96,88,48,642.00 for the losses incurred during execution of the contract at Mangalore.	None
The appellantContractor, vide letter dated 25.07.2013, rejected the claim of the contracteeCompany on the ground that the Contractee has submitted No Dues No Claim Certificate and withdrawal of the same on the ground that it was obtained under duress and coercion is wrong, incorrect and not tenable in law.	None
Being aggrieved by the rejection of their claim, the contracteeCompany invoked the Arbitration clause under the Contract and appointed its Arbitrator.	None
The appellantContractor, vide letter dated 18.10.2013, declined to nominate its Arbitrator.	None
The contracteeCompany filed a Civil Miscellaneous Petition under Section 11 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (in short the Act) for the appointment of an Arbitrator in lieu of the nominee arbitrator of the appellantContractor so that the said arbitrator along with the nominee arbitrator already appointed by the contracteeCompany agree upon the appointment of the third presiding arbitrator for constitution of a three member Arbitral Tribunal as per the agreed terms of the Contract for adjudicating upon the dispute arising out of execution of the Contract.	None
Learned senior counsel for the appellantContractor, after taking us through the material on record, submitted that the contract has come to an end and the obligations therein have been discharged and there is no point of raising a belated claim in the form of losses incurred during the execution of the Contract that too after submitting the Final Bills as well as the No Dues Certificate.	None
In support of his claim, learned senior counsel relied upon a decision of this Court in Union of India and Others vs. Master Construction Co. (2011) 12 SCC 349 wherein it was held as under In our opinion, there is no rule of the absolute kind.	None
In a case where the claimant contends that a discharge voucher or noclaim certificate has been obtained by fraud, coercion, duress or undue influence and the other side contests the correctness thereof, the Chief Justice his designate must look into this aspect to find out at least, prima facie, whether or not the dispute is bona fide and genuine.	None
Where the dispute raised by the claimant with regard to validity of the discharge voucher or noclaim certificate or settlement agreement, prima facie, appears to be lacking in credibility, there may not be a necessity to refer the dispute for arbitration at all.19.	None
It cannot be overlooked that the cost of arbitration is quite hugemost of the time, it runs into six and seven figures.	None
It may not be proper to burden a party, who contends that the dispute is not arbitrable on account of discharge of contract, with huge cost of arbitration merely because plea of fraud, coercion, duress or undue influence has been taken by the claimant.	None
A bald plea of fraud, coercion, duress or undue influence is not enough and the party who sets up such a plea must prima facie establish the same by placing material before the Chief Justice his designate.	None
If the Chief Justice his designate finds some merit in the allegation of fraud, coercion,duress or undue influence, he may decide the same or leave it to be decided by the Arbitral Tribunal.	None
On the other hand, if such plea is found to be an afterthought, makebelieve or lacking in credibility, the matter must be set at rest then and there.	None
Further, learned senior counsel relied upon a judgment of this Court in New India Assurance Co. Ltd. vs. Genus Power Infrastructure Ltd. (2015) 2 SCC 424 wherein this Court has held as under The question that arises is whether the discharge in the present case upon acceptance of compensation and signing of subrogation letter was not voluntary and whether the claimant was subjected to compulsion or coercion and as such could validly invoke the jurisdiction under Section 11 of the Act.	None
The law on the point is clear from following decisions of this Court.	None
In National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Boghara Polyfab (P) Ltd in paras 26 and 51 it was stated as under26.	None
When we refer to a discharge of contract by an agreement signed by both the parties or by execution of a full and final discharge voucher receipt by one of the parties, we refer to an agreement or discharge voucher which is validly and voluntarily executed.	Reasoning
If the party which has executed the discharge agreement or discharge voucher, alleges that the execution of such discharge agreement or voucher was on account of fraud coercion undue influence practised by the other party and is able to establish the same, then obviously the discharge of the contract by such agreement voucher is rendered void and cannot be acted upon.	Reasoning
Consequently, any dispute raised by such party would be arbitrable.	Reasoning
51.	None
The Chief Justice his designate exercising jurisdiction under Section 11 of the Act will consider whether there was really accord and satisfaction or discharge of contract by performance.	None
If the answer is in the affirmative, he will refuse to refer the dispute to arbitration.	None
On the other hand, if the Chief Justice his designate comes to the conclusion that the full and final settlement receipt or discharge voucher was the result of any fraud coercion undue influence, he will have to hold that there was no discharge of the contract and consequently, refer the dispute to arbitration.	None
Alternatively, where the Chief Justice his designate is satisfied prima facie that the discharge voucher was not issued voluntarily and the claimant was under some compulsion or coercion, and that the matter deserved detailed consideration, he may instead of deciding the issue himself, refer the matter to the Arbitral Tribunal with a specific direction that the said question should be decided in the first instance.8.	None
In the decision rendered in Union of India v. Master Construction Co this Court observed as under18.	None
In our opinion, there is no rule of the absolute kind.	None
In a case where the claimant contends that a discharge voucher or noclaim certificate has been obtained by fraud, coercion, duress or undue influence and the other side contests the correctness thereof, the Chief Justice his designate must look into this aspect to find out at least, prima facie, whether or not the dispute is bona fide and genuine.	None
Where the dispute raised by the claimant with regard to validity of the discharge voucher or noclaim certificate or settlement agreement, prima facie, appears to be lacking in credibility, there may not be a necessity to refer the dispute for arbitration at all.19.	None
It cannot be overlooked that the cost of arbitration is quite hugemost of the time, it runs into six and seven figures.	None
It may not be proper to burden a party, who contends that the dispute is not arbitrable on account of discharge of contract, with huge cost of arbitration merely because plea of fraud, coercion, duress or undue influence has been taken by the claimant.	None
A bald plea of fraud, coercion, duress or undue influence is not enough and the party who sets up such a plea must prima facie establish the same by placing material before the Chief Justice his designate.	None
If the Chief Justice his designate finds some merit in the allegation of fraud, coercion, duress or undue influence, he may decide the same or leave it to be decided by the Arbitral Tribunal.	None
On the other hand, if such plea is found to be an afterthought, makebelieve or lacking in credibility, the matter must be set at rest then and there.	None
22.	None
The above certificates leave no manner of doubt that upon receipt of the payment, there has been full and final settlement of the contractors claim under the contract.	None
That the payment of final bill was made to the contractor on 1962000 is not in dispute.	None
After receipt of the payment on 1962000, no grievance was raised or lodged by the contractor immediately.	None
The authority concerned, thereafter, released the bank guarantee in the sum of Rs 21,00,000 on 1272000.	None
It was then that on that day itself, the contractor lodged further claims.9.	None
It is therefore clear that a bald plea of fraud, coercion, duress or undue influence is not enough and the party who sets up a plea, must prima facie establish the same by placing material before the Chief Justice his designate.	None
Viewed thus, the relevant averments in the petition filed by the respondent need to be considered, which were to the following effect(g) That the said surveyor, in connivance with the respondent Company, in order to make the respondent Company escape its full liability of compensating the petitioner of such huge loss, acted in a biased manner, adopted coercion, undue influence and duress methods of assessing the loss and forced the petitioner to sign certain documents including the claim form.	None
The respondent Company also denied the just claim of the petitioner by their acts of omission and commission and by exercising coercion and undue influence and made the petitioner Company sign certain documents, including a preprepared discharge voucher for the said amount in advance, which the petitioner Company were forced to do so in the period of extreme financial difficulty which prevailed during the said period.	None
As stated aforesaid, the petitioner Company was forced to sign several documents including a letter accepting the loss amounting to Rs 6,09,55,406 and settle the claim of Rs 5,96,08,179 as against the actual loss amount of Rs 28,79,08,116 against the interest of the petitioner Company.	None
The said letter and the aforesaid preprepared discharge voucher stated that the petitioner had accepted the claim amount in full and final settlement and thus, forced the petitioner Company to unilateral acceptance of the same.	None
The petitioner Company was forced to sign the said document under duress and coercion by the respondent Company.	None
The respondent Company further threatened the petitioner Company to accept the said amount in full and final or the respondent Company will not pay any amount towards the fire policy.	None
It was under such compelling circumstances that the petitioner Company was forced and under duress was made to sign the acceptance letter.10.	None
In our considered view, the plea raised by the respondent is bereft of any details and particulars, and cannot be anything but a bald assertion.	None
Given the fact that there was no protest or demur raised around the time or soon after the letter of subrogation was signed, that the notice dated 3132011 itself was nearly after three weeks and that the financial condition of the respondent was not so precarious that it was left with no alternative but to accept the terms as suggested, we are of the firm view that the discharge in the present case and signing of letter of subrogation were not because of exercise of any undue influence.	None
Such discharge and signing of letter of subrogation was voluntary and free from any coercion or undue influence.	None
In the circumstances, we hold that upon execution of the letter of subrogation, there was full and final settlement of the claim.	None
Since our answer to the question, whether there was really accord and satisfaction, is in the affirmative, in our view no arbitrable dispute existed so as to exercise power under Section 11 of the Act.	None
The High Court was not therefore justified in exercising power under Section 11 of the Act.	None
When we refer to discharge of a contract by an agreement signed by both the parties or by execution of a full and final discharge voucher receipt by one of the parties, we refer to an agreement or discharge voucher which is validly and voluntarily executed.	Reasoning
If the party which has executed the discharge agreement or discharge voucher, alleges that the execution of such discharge agreement or voucher was on account of fraud coercion undue influence practised by the other party and is able to establish the same, then obviously the discharge of the contract by such agreement voucher is rendered void and cannot be acted upon.	Reasoning
Consequently, any dispute raised by such party would be arbitrable.	Reasoning
But in case the party is not able to establish such a claim or appears to be lacking in credibility, then it is not open to the courts to refer the dispute to arbitration at all.	Reasoning
In support of the claim of duress and coercion while issuing the said Certificate, learned counsel for the contracteeCompany has taken us through a decision of this Court in National Insurance Company Limited vs. Boghara Polyfab Private Limited (2009) 1 SCC 267 wherein it was held as under What is however clear is when a respondent contends that the dispute is not arbitrable on account of discharge of the contract under a settlement agreement or discharge voucher or noclaim certificate, and the claimant contends that it was obtained by fraud, coercion or undue influence, the issue will have to be decided either by the Chief Justice his designate in the proceedings under Section 11 of the Act or by the Arbitral Tribunal as directed by the order under Section 11 of the Act.	None
A claim for arbitration cannot be rejected merely or solely on the ground that a settlement agreement or discharge voucher had been executed by the claimant, if its validity is disputed by the claimant.50.	None
Let us consider what a civil court would have done in a case where the defendant puts forth the defence of accord and satisfaction on the basis of a full and final discharge voucher issued by the plaintiff, and the plaintiff alleges that it was obtained by fraud coercion undue influence and therefore not valid.	None
It would consider the evidence as to whether there was any fraud, coercion or undue influence.	None
If it found that there was none, it will accept the voucher as being in discharge of the contract and reject the claim without examining the claim on merits.	None
On the other hand, if it found that the discharge voucher had been obtained by fraud undue influence coercion, it will ignore the same, examine whether the plaintiff had made out the claim on merits and decide the matter accordingly.	None
The position will be the same even when there is a provision for arbitration.51.	None
The Chief Justice his designate exercising jurisdiction under Section 11 of the Act will consider whether there was really accord and satisfaction or discharge of contract by performance.	None
If the answer is in the affirmative, he will refuse to refer the dispute to arbitration.	None
On the other hand, if the Chief Justice his designate comes to the conclusion that the full and final settlement receipt or discharge voucher was the result of any fraud coercion undue influence, he will have to hold that there was no discharge of the contract and consequently, refer the dispute to arbitration.	None
Alternatively, where the Chief Justice his designate is satisfied prima facie that the discharge voucher was not issued voluntarily and the claimant was under some compulsion or coercion, and that the matter deserved detailed consideration, he may instead of deciding the issue himself, refer the matter to the Arbitral Tribunal with a specific direction that the said question should be decided in the first instance.52.	None
Some illustrations (not exhaustive) as to when claims are arbitrable and when they are not, when discharge of contract by accord and satisfaction are disputed, to round up the discussion on this subject are(i)	None
A claim is referred to a conciliation or a prelitigation Lok Adalat.	None
The parties negotiate and arrive at a settlement.	None
The terms of settlement are drawn up and signed by both the parties and attested by the conciliator or the members of the Lok Adalat.	None
After settlement by way of accord and satisfaction, there can be no reference to arbitration.(ii)	None
A claimant makes several claims.	None
The admitted or undisputed claims are paid.	None
Thereafter negotiations are held for settlement of the disputed claims resulting in an agreement in writing settling all the pending claims and disputes.	None
On such settlement, the amount agreed is paid and the contractor also issues a discharge voucher noclaim certificate full and final receipt.	None
After the contract is discharged by such accord and satisfaction, neither the contract nor any dispute survives for consideration.	None
There cannot be any reference of any dispute to arbitration thereafter.(iii)	None
A contractor executes the work and claims payment of say rupees ten lakhs as due in terms of the contract.	None
The employer admits the claim only for rupees six lakhs and informs the contractor either in writing or orally that unless the contractor gives a discharge voucher in the prescribed format acknowledging receipt of rupees six lakhs in full and final satisfaction of the contract, payment of the admitted amount will not be released.	None
The contractor who is hardpressed for funds and keen to get the admitted amount released, signs on the dotted line either in a printed form or otherwise, stating that the amount is received in full and final settlement.	None
In such a case, the discharge is under economic duress on account of coercion employed by the employer.	None
Obviously, the discharge voucher cannot be considered to be voluntary or as having resulted in discharge of the contract by accord and satisfaction.	None
It will not be a bar to arbitration.(iv)	None
An insured makes a claim for loss suffered.	None
The claim is neither admitted nor rejected.	None
But the insured is informed during discussions that unless the claimant gives a full and final voucher for a specified amount (far lesser than the amount claimed by the insured), the entire claim will be rejected.	None
Being in financial difficulties, the claimant agrees to the demand and issues an undated discharge voucher in full and final settlement.	None
Only a few days thereafter, the admitted amount mentioned in the voucher is paid.	None
The accord and satisfaction in such a case is not voluntary but under duress, compulsion and coercion.	None
The coercion is subtle, but very much real.	None
The accord is not by free consent.	None
The arbitration agreement can thus be invoked to refer the disputes to arbitration.(v)	None
A claimant makes a claim for a huge sum, by way of damages.	None
The respondent disputes the claim.	None
The claimant who is keen to have a settlement and avoid litigation, voluntarily reduces the claim and requests for settlement.	None
The respondent agrees and settles the claim and obtains a full and final discharge voucher.	None
Here even if the claimant might have agreed for settlement due to financial compulsions and commercial pressure or economic duress, the decision was his free choice.	None
There was no threat, coercion or compulsion by the respondent.	None
Therefore, the accord and satisfaction is binding and valid and there cannot be any subsequent claim or reference to arbitration.	None
Learned counsel further relied upon a decision of this Court in R.L. Kalathia Co. vs. State of Gujarat (2011) 2 SCC 400 wherein it was held as under Before going into the factual matrix on this aspect, it is useful to refer the decisions of this Court relied on by Mr Altaf Ahmed.	None
In NTPC Ltd. v. Reshmi Constructions, Builders Contractors1 which relates to termination of a contract, one of the questions that arose for consideration was(i) Whether after the contract comes to an end by completion of the contract work and acceptance of the final bill in full and final satisfaction and after issuing a nodemand certificate by the contractor, can any party to the contract raise any dispute for reference to arbitration?	None
While answering the said issue this Court held27.	None
Even when rights and obligations of the parties are worked out, the contract does not come to an end inter alia for the purpose of determination of the disputes arising thereunder, and, thus, the arbitration agreement can be invoked.	None
Although it may not be strictly in place but we cannot shut our eyes to the ground reality that in a case where a contractor has made huge investment, he cannot afford not to take from the employer the amount under the bills, for various reasons which may include discharge of his liability towards the banks, financial institutions and other persons.	None
In such a situation, the public sector undertakings would have an upper hand.	None
They would not ordinarily release the money unless a nodemand certificate is signed.	None
Each case, therefore, is required to be considered on its own facts.28.	None
Further, necessitas non habet legem is an ageold maxim which means necessity knows no law.	None
A person may sometimes have to succumb to the pressure of the other party to the bargain who is in a stronger position.	None
In the case at hand, the High Court allowed the appeal filed by the contractee on the assertion that the No Dues Certificate was given on account of coercion undue influence practiced by the appellantContractor.	Reasoning
The contractee, while basing its claim, relied upon the letters issued to the appellantContractor for releasing the payment of RA Bills.	None
Whether there has been duress and coercion exerted against the contracteeCompany by the appellantContractor has to be examined keeping in mind the background in which the said letters have been exchanged between the parties.	None
Learned counsel for the contracteeCompany categorically submitted the relevant dates for our perusal to show that RA Bills were raised on various dates for making payments to suppliers and others but were advertently delayed causing grave financial crisis to the contracteeCompany to carry out the works and losses on account of delay in settling the claims of the contracteeCompany periodically.	Reasoning
However, it is contended from the side of the appellantContractor that the High Court was not right in considering it a genuine and serious dispute regarding the claim made and the conduct of the parties as reflected in the correspondence exchanged between the parties disclosing that the contracteeCompany encountered several financial constraints.	None
Pursuant to taking a false claim of duress and coercion while filing the No Dues Certificate, the contracteeCompany, vide letter dated 12.01.2013 to the appellantContractor, submitted a claim for Rs. 96,88,48,642.00 for the losses incurred during execution of the contract at Mangalore.	Facts
It has been claimed that the contracteeCompany could not continue with the work due to various reasons like pooja, shifting of Idols, nonavailability of free encumbrance of site, obstruction in the blasting work, stoppage of hard rock blasting, issues with respect to work to be given to local contractors, nonvacation of project displaced families, permission for forest clearance, permission for shifting of wooden logs etc. and the huge expenditure as disclosed in the claim was incurred by the contracteeCompany due to the factors attributable to the appellantContractor.	Reasoning
Clause 6.6.0 of the General Conditions of Contract deals with Claims by the Contractor (contractee in the case at hand).	None
Clause 6.6.1.0. of the Contract states that in case of a claim of extra compensation or remuneration, the Contractee shall give notice in writing of its claim within 10 days from the date of issue of orders or instructions related to any works for which the Contractee claims such additional payment.	Reasoning
The notice shall give full particulars of the nature of such claim, grounds on which it is based and the amount claimed.	Reasoning
Unless and until notice is given, the Contractor shall not be liable to pay extra compensation to the Contractee.	Reasoning
Clause 6.6.3.0 states that any claim of the Contractee in accordance with Clause 6.6.1.0 shall be separately included in the Final Bill prepared by it in the form of Statement of Claims, giving particulars of the nature of claims, ground on which it is based and the amount claimed and shall be supported by a copy of the notice and the Contractor shall not be liable in respect of any notified claim not specifically reflected in the Final Bill in accordance with the provisions of Clause 6.6.3.0 which shall be deemed to have been waived by the Contractee.	None
From the materials on record, we find that the contracteeCompany had issued the No Dues No Claim Certificate on 21.09.2012, it had received the full amount of the final bill being Rs. 20.34 crores on 10.10.2012 and after 12 days thereafter, i.e., only on 24.10.2012, the contracteeCompany withdrew letter dated 21.09.2012 issuing No Dues	None
No Claim Certificate.	None
Apart from it, we also find that the Final Bill has been mutually signed by both the parties to the Contract accepting the quantum of work done, conducting final measurements as per the Contract, arriving at final value of work, the payments made and the final payment that was required to be made.	None
The contracteeCompany accepted the final payment in full and final satisfaction of all its claims.	Reasoning
We are of the considered opinion that in the presents facts and circumstances, the raising of the Final Bill and mutual agreement of the parties in that regard, all claims, rights and obligation of the parties merge with the Final Bill and nothing further remains to be done.	Reasoning
Further, the appellantContractor issued the Completion Certificate dated 19.06.2013 pursuant to which the appellantContractor has been discharged of all the liabilities.	Reasoning
With regard to the issue that the NoDues Certificate had been given under duress and coercion, we are of the opinion that there is nothing on record to prove that the said Certificate had been given under duress or coercion and as the Certificate itself provided a clearance of no dues, the contractee could not now turn around and say that any further payment was still due on account of the losses incurred during the execution of the Contract.	Reasoning
The story about duress was an afterthought in the background that the losses incurred during the execution of the Contract were not visualised earlier by the contractee.	Reasoning
As to financial duress or coercion, nothing of this kind is established prima facie.	Reasoning
Mere allegation that noclaim certificates have been obtained under financial duress and coercion, without there being anything more to suggest that, does not lead to an arbitrable dispute.	Reasoning
The conduct of the contractee clearly shows that noclaim certificate was given by it voluntarily the contractee accepted the amount voluntarily and the contract was discharged voluntarily.	None
Conclusion Admittedly, NoDues Certificate was submitted by the contracteeCompany on 21.09.2012 and on their request Completion Certificate was issued by the appellant Contractor.	None
The contractee, after a gap of one month, that is, on 24.10.2012, withdrew the No Dues Certificate on the grounds of coercion and duress and the claim for losses incurred during execution of the Contract site was made vide letter dated 12.01.2013, i.e., after a gap of 3 (three and a half) months whereas the Final Bill was settled on 10.10.2012.	Decision
When the contractee accepted the final payment in full and final satisfaction of all its claims, there is no point in raising the claim for losses incurred during the execution of the Contract at a belated stage which creates an iota of doubt as to why such claim was not settled at the time of submitting Final Bills that too in the absence of exercising duress or coercion on the Contractee by the appellantContractor.	Decision
In our considered view, the plea raised by the contracteeCompany is bereft of any details and particulars, and cannot be anything but a bald assertion.	None
In the circumstances, there was full and final settlement of the claim and there was really accord and satisfaction and in our view no arbitrable dispute existed so as to exercise power under Section 11 of the Act.	Decision
The High Court was not, therefore, justified in exercising power under Section 11 of the Act.	None
In view of the foregoing discussion, we set aside the judgment and order dated 12.01.2015 passed by the High Court.	None
The appeal is allowed.	Decision
