 PATHAK, J.1.	None
I agree that the appeal must succeed.	None
The real question is whether the Explanation(l) to r. 13 of O. 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure bars the appeal filed by the respondent against the ex parte decree.	None
The Explanation was enacted by the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1976 with effect from February 1, 1977.	Reasoning
Prior to its enactment, a defendant burdened by an ex parte decree could apply to the trial court under r. 13 of O. 9 for setting aside the decree.	None
He could also appeal under s. 96 against the decree.	None
The mere filing of the appeal did not take away the jurisdiction of the trial court to entertain and dispose of the application for setting aside the ex parte decree.	None
It was where the appeal was disposed of, and the appellate decree, superseded the trial court decree by reversing, confirming or varying it that the trial court could not proceed to set aside its ex parte decree.	None
For the trial court decree was said to have merged with the appellate decree.	None
There are of course cases where the trial court decree does not merge with the appellate decree.	None
Such instances arise when the appeal is dismissed in default, or where it is dismissed as having abated by reason of the omission of the appellant to implead the legal representatives of a deceased respondent or where it is dismissed as barred by limitation.	None
So there a limited area where the trial court decree merges in the appellate decree and when that takes place an application before the trial court for setting aside the decree loses all meaning.	None
It was a limited area defined by the operation of the doctrine of merger.	None
From February 1, 1977 the area was extended enormously.	None
With the Explanation in operation, no application for setting aside an ex parte decree can lie where the defendant has filed an appeal and the appeal has been disposed of on any ground other than the ground that the appeal has been withdrawn by the appellant.	None
No doubt the provision described as an Explanation, but as is well known it is not the rubric which decisively defines the true nature of a statutory provision.	None
Its true nature must be determined from the content of the provision, its import gathered from the language employed, and the language construed in the context in which the provision has been enacted.	None
In the present .	None
case, the rule in Heydons case, (l) approval of and applied by this Court in Swantraj Ors. v. State of Maharashtra (2) and many other cases, is attracted.	None
What was the law before the amendment, what was the mischief and defect for which the law did not provide, what remedy has Parliament resolved and appointed to cure the mischief, and the true reason of the remedy.	None
It has been observed earlier that a defendant intending to avoid an ex parte decree could apply to the trial court for setting it aside and could also appeal to a superior court against it.	None
The courts were open to a duplication of proceedings, and although the immediate relief claimed in the two proceedings was not identical both ultimately aimed at a redecision on the merits.	None
Moreover, on the two proceedings initiated by the defendant, the application under r. 13 of O. 9 would subsequently become infructuous if the appeal resulted in a decree superseding the trial court decree.	None
It was also possible to envisage the appeal becoming infructuous if the trial court decree was set aside on the application under r. 13 of O. 9 before the appeal was disposed of.	None
The plaintiff was in the unfortunate position of being dragged through two courts in simultaneous proceedings.	None
Public time and private convenience and money was sought to be saved by enacting the Explanation.	None
The Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1976 was enacted with the avowe d purpose of abridging and simplifying the procedural law.	None
By enacting the Explanation, Parliament left it open to the defendant to apply under r. 13 of O. 9 for setting aside an ex parte decree only if the defendant had opted Dot to appeal against the ex parte decree or, in the case where he had preferred an appeal, the appeal had been withdrawn by him.	None
The withdrawal of the appeal was tantamount to effacing it.	None
It obliged the defendant to decide whether he would prefer an adjudication by the appellate court on the merits of the decree or have the decree set aside by the trial court under r. 13 of O. 9.	None
The legislative attempt incorporated in the Explanation was to discourage a twopronged attack on the decree and to confine the defendant to a single course of action.	None
If he did not withdraw the appeal filed by him, but allowed the appeal to be disposed of on any other ground, he was denied the right to apply under r. 13 of O.9.	None
The disposal of the appeal on any ground whatever, apart from its withdrawal, constituted sufficient reason for bringing the ban into operation.	None
In the present case, the appeal was dismissed as barred by limitation.	None
That it was an appeal even though barred by time is clear from M s. Mela Ram Sons v. Commissioner of Incometax, (1) where Venkataram Ayyar, J., speaking for the court, after referring to Nagendranath Dey v. Suresh Chandra Dey, (2) Raja Kulkarni and Ors.	None
v. The State of Bombay(3) and Promotho Nath Roy v .	None
W.A. Lee(4) held thatan appeal presented out of time is an appeal, and an order dismissing it as timebarred is one passed in appeal.	None
There can be no dispute then that in law what the respondent did was to file an appeal and that the order dismissing it as timebarred was one disposing of the appeal.2.	None
Accordingly, the appeal is allowed, the judgment and order passed by the High Court are set aside and the ex parte decree passed in favour of the appellant is restored.	None
There is no order as to costs.	None
AMARENDRA NATH SEN, J.3.	None
Whether the dismissal of an appeal against an ex parte decree on the ground that the appeal is barred by limitation attracts the provisions contained in the Explanation in O. 9.	Issue
R.13 of the Code of Civil Procedure and creates a bar to the maintainability of an application under O. 9.	Issue
rule 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure for setting aside the ex parte decree, is the question which falls for determination in this appeal by special leave granted by this Court.4.	None
The question arises in the following circumstancesThe appellant filed a petition against the respondent under S. 13 of the Hindu Marriage Act for the dissolution of her marriage with respondent and for a decree of divorce.	Facts
The said petition was filed by the appellant on 1.9.79 and the appellant obtained an ex parte decree on 6121979.	Facts
It appears that on 101179 the respondent husband had addressed a letter to the Court requesting the Court for an adjournment of the case fixed on 6121979 on the ground that because of special assignment it would not be possible for him to be present in Court on that day.	Facts
The Court refused to grant an adjournment and on that date an exparte decree fo r divorce was passed in favour of the appellant.	Facts
The respondent husband preferred an appeal against the exparte decree in the High Court.	Facts
As the appeal had been filed in the High Court beyond time, the respondent husband also made an application under S. 5 of the Limitation Act for condonation of delay in filing the appeal.	Facts
By its judgment and order dated 1731981, the High Court dismissed the application tor condonation of delay, holding that no sufficient cause for condonation had b een made out.	Facts
The High Court by the same order and Judgment also dismissed the appeal holdingthe appeal being barred by time is dismissed.	Facts
The respondent moved an application before the Trial Court under O. 3, rule 13 of the Code of Civil Pr ocedure for setting aside the exparte decree.	Facts
The respondent had also moved an application under S. 5 of the Limitation Act for condonation of delay in making the application under O.9, rule 13 of the C.P. Code.	Facts
The learned Trial Judge held th at no sufficient cause had been made out for condonation of delay and in that view of the matter the learned Trial Judge dismissed both the applications.	Facts
Against the order of the Trial Judge, the respondent filed an appeal in the High Court.	Facts
The main co ntention of the husband, the appellant in the High Court, was that the Trial Court was in error in coming to the conclusion that no sufficient cause for condonation of delay had been made out and the Trial Court had also erred in not setting asid	Facts
e the exparte decree as there was sufficient cause for nonappearance of the husband on the date fixed for the hearing of the petition for divorce.	Facts
On behalf of the wife, the respondent in the appeal before the High Court, it was urged that the Trial Court was clearly right on merits in coming to the conclusion that no sufficient cause had been made out for condonation of delay and for setting aside the decree and it was further urged that in view of the provisions contained in the Explanation in order 9, rule 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the application for setting aside the exparte decree was not maintainable, as the appeal preferred by the husband against the exparte decree had already been dismissed by the H igh Court.	Facts
The High Court for reasons recorded in its Judgment dated 14.9.1981 came to the conclusion that sufficient cause bad been made out by the husband for condonation cf delay in presenting the application under O. 9, rule 13 beyond t he prescribed time, that sufficient cause had been made out by the husband for his nonappearance at the hearing of the petition on 6121979 when the exparte decree for divorce was passed and that the Explanation in order IX, rule 13 did not creat e any bar to the maintainability of the application under order 9, rule 13, as the appeal against the exparte decree had been dismissed not on merits but on the ground of Limitation.	Facts
The High Court	Facts
heldThus I am of the view that the dispos al of an appeal against the exparte decree means disposal on merits for debarring the defendant applicant from filing or continuing an application for setting aside the exparte decree under order 9 rule 13 of the code.	Facts
If an application for condo nation of delay in filing appeal has not been accepted it means no appeal was preferred in law and dismissal of appeal as barred by time would not be disposal of the appeal as contemplated under Explanation to order 9 rule 13 of the Code.	Facts
I, therefore, hold that the appellants application under order 9, rule 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure is maintainableAgainst the Judgment and order of the High Court this appeal has been preferred by the wife with special leave granted b y this Court5.	Facts
The main contention raised on behalf of the appellant is that on a true interpretation of the Explanation in order 9, rule 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure the application for setting aside the exparte decree must be held to be incompetent and not maintainable.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has been urged that the High Court erred in holding that the Explanation did not impose any bar to the maintainability of an application in a case where the appeal is not dismissed on merits.	Arguments of Petitioner
The argument it that the said interpretation by the High Court is wrong and is clearly unwarranted by the plain language used in the said Section.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged that it is not right to hold that when an appeal is filed beyond time and is dismissed on the ground of limitation, there is no appeal in the eye of law and therefore, no disposal, of an appeal as contemplated in the Explanation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel has submitted that the decisions of the Privy Council in the case of Chandri Abdul Majid v. Jawahar Lal (AIR 1914 P. C. 66.)	Arguments of Petitioner
and of the Calcutta High Court in the case of Kalumuddin Ahmed v. Esabakuddin ors (l) are of no assistance in interpreting the provisions contained in the Explanation in order 9, rule 13 of the Code o f Civil Procedure.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel has further submitted that the High Court went wrong in interfering with the findings of the Trial Court that no sufficient cause had been made out for condonation of delay in filing an application under order 9, rule 13 of the Code and in any event there is no justifiable reason for nonappearance of the respondent on the due date for the hearing of the matter.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the respondenthusband, it has been urged that on a true interpretation of the Explanation, the High Court has correctly held that the Explanation will not apply to a case where the appeal preferred against an exparte decree is dismissed not on merits but on the ground of limitation.	Arguments of Respondent
It is the argument of the learned counsel that the Explanation will only apply when the appeal is dismissed on merits, as in such a case the decree of the Trial Court gets merged with the decree of the appellate Court and naturally the trial Court loses its competence to set asid e the exparte decree which was originally passed by the trial court, but has subsequently merged in the decree passed by the appellate court.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel argues that the Explanation seeks to embody the principle that when a decree of the Trial Court gets merged in the decree of the appellate court, the Trial Court loses seisin over the matter and becomes incompetent to deal with a decree of the appellate court.	Arguments of Respondent
It is his argument that as in the instant case the appeal was dismissed on the ground of limitation and not on merits, there is no question of any merger of the decree P of the trial court with any decree of the appellate court.	Arguments of Respondent
He argues that an appeal preferred beyond time, unless delay in filing the appeal is condoned, becomes incompetent and is indeed no appeal in the eye of law.	Arguments of Respondent
He has placed reliance on the two decisions of the Privy Council in Chandri Abdul Majid (supra) and Kalimuddin Ahmed (supra), considered by the High Court in its judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel further argues that in the facts and circumstances of this case, the High Court was perfectly justified in holding that sufficient cause was made out for not making the application under order 9, rule 13 within t he time prescribed and for condoning the delay in making the application, and the High Court was also clearly justified in coming to the conclusion that the respondent husband was prevented by sufficient cause for not being able to appear o n the date fixed for hearing.	Arguments of Respondent
He submits that in any event this Court in this appeal should not interfere with these findings of the High Court in the larger interfere of the administration of justice and this Court should not deprive the husband of t he opportunity of contesting the claim of the wife.8.	Arguments of Respondent
The principal question as to whether the application made by the husband for setting aside the exparte decree is competent or not in view of the provisions contained in the Explanation in O. 9, rule 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure turns on a proper interpretation of the Explanation.	Issue
Order 9, rule 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure reads as followsIn any case in which a decree is passed exparte against a defendant, he may apply to the Court by which the decree was passed for an order to set aside, and if he satisfies the Court that the summons was not duly served, or that he was prevented by any sufficient cause from appearing when the suit was called on for hearing, the Court shall make an order setting aside the decree as against him upon such terms as to costs, payment into Court or otherwise as it thinks fit, and shall appoint a day for Proceeding with the suitProvided that where the decree is of such a nature that it cannot be set aside as against such defendant only it may be set aside as against all or any of the other defendants alsorovided further that no court shall set aside a decree passed exparte merely on the ground that there has been an irregularity in the service of summons, if it is satisfied that the defendant had notice of the date of hearing and had sufficient time to appear and answer the plaintiffs claim.	None
ExplanationWhere there has been an appeal against a decree passed exparte under this rule, and the appeal has been disposed of on any ground other than the ground that the appellant has withdrawn the appeal, no application shall lie under this rule for setting aside that exparte decree.	Reasoning
Order 9, rule 13 makes provision for the setting aside of an exparte decree against the defendant.	Reasoning
It lays down the con ditions and also the procedure for the setting aside of an exparte decree.	Reasoning
The Explanation was introduced into this provision by the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1976 (Act 104 of 1976) and it has come into force from 1.2 1977.	Reasoning
The proc eeding by the wife was initiated on 1.9.1979 and the exparte decree of divorce in her favour was passed on 6.12.1979.	Reasoning
The application by the husband has been made for setting aside this exparte decree.	Reasoning
The Explanation, therefore, operates the r eal question being whether in the facts and circumstances of this case, the bar created by the Explanation to the setting aside of an exparte decree is attracted to the present application.9.	Reasoning
A plain reading of the Explanation clearly indicates t hat if any appeal against an exparte decree has been disposed of on any ground other than the ground that the appellant has withdrawn the appeal, no application for setting aside the exparte decree under order 9, rule 13 of the Code will be entertained.	Reasoning
The words used in the Explanation are clear and unambiguous.	Reasoning
The language used in the explanation clearly suggests that where there has been an appeal against a decree passed exparte and the appeal has been disposed of on any ground other than the ground that the appellant has withdrawn the appeal, no application shall lie under order 9, rule 13 of the Code for setting aside the exparte decree.	Reasoning
An appeal may be disposed of on various grounds.	Reasoning
It may be disposed of after proper hearing on merits and this is usually the normal way of disposal of an appeal.	Reasoning
An appeal may be disposed of also for non prosecution thereof.	Reasoning
Though the dismissal of an appeal on the ground of non prosecution of the same is not disposal of the appeal on merits, yet the dismissal of the appeal for nonprosecution results in the disposal thereof.	Reasoning
An appeal may also be dismissed on the ground of limitation, if condonation of delay in filing the appeal is not allowed by the Court.	Reasoning
An appeal may also be liable to be dismissed for non compliance with any condition relating to the filing of the appeal and also for other reasons.	Reasoning
An appellant is also entitled to withdraw the appeal and the withdrawal of the appea l also results in the disposal of the appeal, though in such a case no merits of the appeal are adjudicated upon.	Reasoning
The language used in the Explanation makes it clear that the withdrawal of an appeal is considered to be disposal of the appeal, a s contemplated in the Explanation.	Reasoning
It is significant to note that though an appeal may be disposed of on very many grounds the Legislature has thought it fit to provide in the Explanation that only when an appeal against an exparte decree is dispo sed of on the ground that the appellant has withdrawn the appeal, the bar created to the maintainability of an application under order 9, rule 13 of the Code for setting aside the exparte decree will not apply.	Reasoning
The Legislature must be presumed to kno w that there are various ways of disposal of an appeal.	Reasoning
The Legislature has, however, thought it fit to provide that when an appeal has been preferred against an exparte decree, the disposal of the appeal on any ground excepting the solita ry ground of disposal of the appeal by withdrawal of the same by the appellant, will create a bar to the maintainability of an application under Order 9, rule 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Reasoning
By specifically providing in the Explanation that t he disposal of any appeal from the ex parte decree on any ground other than the solitary ground of withdrawal of the appeal by the appellant, the legislative intent is made manifestly clear that in all other cases of the disposal of the appeal on a ny other ground than the ground of withdrawal of the appeal, there will be a bar to the maintainability of the application under order 9, rule 13 and no application will lie under order 9, rule 13 for the setting aside of an exparte decree.	Reasoning
Wi thdrawal of an appeal by an appellant does not result in any adjudication on merits.	Reasoning
Even then, the withdrawal of an appeal is still considered to be a disposal of the appeal and the disposal of an appeal only on this ground of withdrawal of the appe al by the appellant, it is made clear in the Explanation, will not create any bar to the maintainability of the application under order 9, rule 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Reasoning
On a proper interpretation of the explanation we are of the opinion t hat where there has been an appeal against an ex parte decree and the appeal has not been withdrawn by the appellant and has been disposed of on any ground, the application under order 9, rule 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure will not lie and cannot be entertained.	Reasoning
In the instant case, an appeal had admittedly been filed against the exparte decree.	Reasoning
The appeal was beyond time.	Reasoning
The appellant had not withdrawn the appeal.	Reasoning
The appellant had filed an application for condonation of delay in preferring the appeal.	Reasoning
The application for condonation of delay had been rejected by the Court and the appeal had been dismissed an the ground of limitation.	Reasoning
The dismissal of the appeal on the ground of limitation resulted in dis posal of the appeal though not on merits.	Reasoning
The appeal filed against the exparte decree was, therefore, disposed of on grounds other than the ground that the appellant had withdrawn the appeal.	Reasoning
The application under order 9, rule 13 after the dis posal of the appeal, therefore, became incompetent in view of the provisions contained in the Explanation and could not therefore be entertained by the Court.	Reasoning
The view expressed by the High Court must, therefore.	Reasoning
be held to be erroneous.10.	None
In support of the view taken by the High Court, the High Court referred to and relied on the decision of the Privy Council in the case of Chandri Abdul Majid (supra).	None
The decision of the Privy Council, in our opinion, has no material bearing on the question involved in the present appeal.	None
In the case before the Privy.	None
Council, the Judicial Committee was concerned with the question as to the commencement of the period of limitation in respect of a decree passed by the Trial C ourt, affirmed by the High Court on appeal and a further appeal therefrom to the Privy Council was dismissed by the Privy Council for non prosecution of the appeal.	None
The appellant before the Privy Council was in the position of a mortgagor and the Respondents of mortgagees under a mortgage dated 3rd September, 1868.	None
In 1889 a suit was commenced before the Subordinate Judge of Allahabad to enforce that mortgage and on the 12th May, 1890, a decree was passed by him for the sale of the property unless payment was made on or before the 12th August, 1890.	None
An appeal was brought from that decree to the High Court and on the 8th April, 1893 that appeal was dismissed and the decree of the Subordinate Judge was confirmed.	None
The mortgagor obtained leave to appeal to the Judicial Committee but did not prosecute his appeal and on the 13th May, 1901, the appeal was dismissed for want of prosecution.	None
The Mortgagor decreeholder made an application to the Subordin ate Judge on the 11th June, 1909 for an order absolute to sell the mortgaged properties it appears that an order had been made on the said application for execution in favour of the decreeholder and ultimately the validity of the execution pr oceedings went to the Privy Council for consideration.	None
The main argument before the Privy Council was that the decree which was sought to be enforced had been constructively turned into a decree of the Privy Council by virtue of the dismissal of the appeal by the Privy Council on 13.5.1901 for nonprosecution of the appeal and the period of limitation, therefore, was 12 years from 13.5.1901.	None
The Judicial Committee rejected this contention holding that the order dismissing the app eal for want of prosecution did not deal judicially with the matter of the suit and could in no sense be regarded as an order adopting or confirming the decision appealed from.	None
The Judicial Committee held that as there was no decree by the Judi cial Committee adopting or confirming the decision appealed from, and as there was never any stay of the decree passed by the High Court affirming the decree of the SubordinateJudge, the period of limitation will run from the date of the passing of the decree by the High Court and the period will be three years from the date of the decree passed by the High Court.	None
The Privy Council allowed the appeal holding that the application dated 11.6.1909 for sale of the mortgaged properties was barred by limitation.	None
While considering the question whether the period of limitation should be effective from the date of the dismissal of the appeal by the Judicial Committee for non prosecution thereof, the Judicial Committee had made the following observationsThe order dismissing the appeal for want of prosecution did not deal judicially with the matter of the suit and could in no sense be regarded as an order adopting or confirming the decision appealed from.	None
It merely recognised authoritatively that the appellant had not complied with the conditions under which the appeal was open to him, and that therefore he was in the same position as if he had not appealed at all.	None
This position was made abundantly clear by the Judicial Committee by the observations immediately followingTo put it shortly, the only decree for sale that exists is the decree, dated 8th April, 1893, and that is a decree of the High Court of Allahabad.11.	None
In the case of Kalimuddin Ahamed v. Esabakuddin and ors the material facts were A partition suit was instituted on 20.12.1918 against several defendants, among whom the appellant before the High Court was No. 4.	None
Two of the defendants contested the suit and on 22.9.1919 a preliminary decree from partition was made on contest against two of the defendants and exparte against the others.	None
The appellant did not appear at all in the fir st Court and he was one of the defendants against whom the decree was made exparte.	None
On 17.12.1919 the first defendant alone preferred an appeal against the decree to the High Court and on 20.12.1919 the appellant presented an application to the Trial Court under order 9, rule 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
This application was kept pending until after the disposal of the appeal preferred by the first defendant.	None
One of the respondents in the appeal filed by the first defendant died and as the appellant did not take proper steps to bring the heirs on the record, the appeal was dismissed as against them and then against the others it was held that in the absence of the heirs of the deceased respondent the appeal could not proceed and the appeal was accordingly dismissed on 5th January 1922.	None
Thereafter the application of the appellant under 9, rule 13 of Code of Civil Procedure came up for hearing and on 8th April 1922 a petition of compromise between the plaintiff and the appellant was presented and in accordance therewith the Court ordered that the suit should be restored to its original number as against the applicant who was defendant No. 4 in the suit in regard to three only of the plots mentioned in the plaint.	None
In making this order, the Court proceeded on the compromise alone without any enquiry as to the causes which prevented defendant No. 4 from appearing at the trial.	None
In July.	None
1922, a different Judge was presiding over the Court an d on 5th July, 1922, he expressed doubt as to the legality of the order passed by his predecessor on 8th April, 1922 and after hearing the arguments he delivered his judgment on 7th July, 1922 holding that the order passed by his predecessor on 8th April, 1922 was made without jurisdiction because there was no longer any exparte decree over which the Court had control and the said order was a nullity and utterly void so that no proceeding to set it aside were necessary and the fact of the order being made on consent as against the plaintiff could not convert it into a valid order.	None
Against this judgment, an appeal was filed in the High Court.	Facts
A division Bench of the Calcutta High Court treated the appeal as a revision petition under S. 115 and set aside the order, holding that when an exparte decree was appealed against and also an application to set aside was made but the appeal was dismissed for not bringing the representatives of the deceased respondent on re cord, the exparte decree did not merge in the appellate decree and an order passed on consent on the application to set aside the decree was not without jurisdiction.	None
The decision of the Judicial Committee in Abdul Majids case was also considered in this case.	None
Walmsley, J. held at p1832 as followsThe order of this Court may be a decree, without being such a decree as to supersede the decree of the lower Court.	None
All that this Court decided was that having regard to the nature of the appeal, a certain defendant was a necessary party, and that in the absence of that defendant, .	None
or on her death her representatives, the appeal could not proceed.	None
On the merits of the appeal in other respects there was no adjudication, but on the contrary an express  refusal to adjudicate.	None
Consequently it is of no importance whether the order did or did not amount to a decree.	None
What .	None
is of importance is t hat	None
it was not a decree in which that of the lower Court was merged12.	None
Mukherjee, J., the other learned Judge on the Bench observed at	None
p. 834Now	None
the consideration of the question as to whether the learned Subordinate Judge had jurisdiction to pass the order of the 8th April, 1922 involves a consideration of the following questions (a) whether the order of this Court passed on the 5th January 1922, amounted to a decree or not, (b) if it was a decree , whether the exparte decree can be held to have a merged into it, (c) whether the learned Subordinate Judge had jurisdiction to set aside the exparte decree and restore the suit, and (d) whether his successor could declare or was right in declaring the aforesaid order a nullity.	None
As to (a) The definition of the word decree in the Code of Civil Procedure, in so far as it purports to be a definition at all, lays down the following essential and distinguishing elements viz., that the decision must have been expressed in a suit, that the decision must have been passed on the rights of the parties with regard lo all or any of the matters in controvers y in the suit, that the decision must be one which conclusively determines those rights.	None
Then certain orders which may or may not satisfy the above requirements are either expressly included in or ex cluded from the definition.	None
The whole object of defining a decree in the said Code appears to be to classify orders in order to determine whether an appeal or in certain cases a second appeal lies therefrom.	None
Apart from th at object .	None
this definition is of no value.	None
I am not prepared to accept the contention of the respondent that because an order rejecting a plaint is a decree, an order dismissed an appeal on the ground that it was improperly constituted is by mere analogy to be treated as a decree.	None
I am unable to reconcile either in principle or in theory why an order rejecting a plaint should stand on a different footing from orders of dismissal for default, and yet one is a decree and the other is not.	None
It is true that an order of rejection of a plaint has been expressly included in the definition of a decree but the legislature has included it and no analogy can be drawn therefrom .	None
The question whether an adjudication is an order or decree is to be tested not by general principles, but by the expressions of the Code, and those words are to be construed in their plain and obvious sense.	None
The learned Judge further held at p. 835Here	None
the position was that the plaintiff had got a decree as against the defendants in respect of a certain share one of the defendants viz., the defendant No. 1, had preferred the appeal excepting the question as to whether the appeal was maintainable in the absence of the minors, the heirs of the defendants No. 6, no other question was gone into, and in fact none could be litigated, and that is more important is what the rights of the defendant No. 4 were as against the plaintiff or whether the ex parte decree passed against him was a good or valid one, or whether it should stand at all, could scarcely be determined in that appeal.	None
There is no authority for the proposition that under circumstances such as these, the exparte decree can possibly be said to have merged in the decree by passed the appellate Court.13.	None
It may be noticed that in neither of these two decisions there was or could be any occasion for interpreting the Explanation which came to be incorporated years later and these two decisions have mainly proceeded on the basis of merger of the decree pass ed by the Trial Court with the decree of the Appellate Court.	None
The words used in Explanation make it abundantly clear that disposal of the appeal as contemplated in the Explanation is not intended to mean or imply disposal on merits resulting in the merger of the decree of the Trial Court with the decree, if any, of the Appellate Court on the disposal of the appeal.	Reasoning
The Explanation speaks of the appeal has been disposed of on any ground other then the ground that the appellant has withdrawn the appeal and these words make it abundantly clear that disposal of the appeal may be on any ground and the withdrawal of on appeal by the appellant is also considered to be the disposal of the appeal on the ground of withdrawal, and, the disposal of the appeal from the exparte decree on the ground of withdrawal of the appeal by the appellant has only been exempted from the operation of the Explanation.	Reasoning
If the intention was that the Explanation would not be attracted and there would be no disposal of an appeal within the meaning of the Explanation unless the appeal was disposed of on merits resulting in the merger of the decree of the Trial Court with the decree of the Appellate Court, it would not have been necessary to provide specifically that the disposal of an appeal on the ground of withdrawal would be exempt, because the disposal of an appeal on the ground of withdrawal would not be disposal of the appeal within the meaning of the Explanation, as on the withdrawal of an appeal there is no decision on merits and there is no merger of the decree with any decree of the Appellate Court.	Reasoning
The legislature could also have simply provided in the Explanation for the disposal of an appeal on merits and it would not have been necessary to use the other words, on the disposal of an appeal on any ground other than the ground that the appellant has withdrawn the appeal.	Reasoning
The words used, disposal of the appeal on any ground other than the ground that the appellant has withdrawn the appeal will undoubtedly attract within its ambit the disposal of an appeal on the ground of the same being dismissed for non prosecution, Though in the case of such disposal of the appeal there will be no effective adjudication of the appeal on merits and the disposal of the appeal may not have the effect of the decree of the Trial Court appealed against being merged with any decree of the Appellate Court on the disposal of the appeal.	Reasoning
The disposal of an appeal on the ground of limitation may or may not be adjudication on the merits of the appeal, depending on the particular facts and circumstances of the case and may or may not result in the merger of the decree of the Trial Court with the decree, if any, of the appellate Court but there cannot be any manner of doubt that when an appeal from the exparte decree is dismissed on the ground of limitation, the appeal is disposed of on any ground other than the ground that the appellant has withdrawn the appeal.	Reasoning
As the dismissal of the appeal on the ground of limitation results in the disposal of the appeal on any ground other than the ground of the withdrawal of the appeal b y the appellant, the explanation is attracted, and the application for setting aside the exparte decree becomes incompetent after the disposal of the appeal and cannot be entertained.14.	Reasoning
As in our view, the application for setting aside the expar te decree does not lie and cannot be entertained, in view of the provisions contained in the Explanation, it does not become necessary for us to go into the merits of the application to consider whether sufficient cause had been shown by the respondent for his nonappearance at the hearing at the date fixed and also for not preferring the application with n the time prescribed.15.	Reasoning
The appeal, therefore, succeeds.	Decision
The judgment and order passed by the High Court are set aside and the exparte decree passed in favour of the appellant OD 6.12.1979 is restored.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of this case, we do not propose to make any order for costs.16.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
