 Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, J.1.	None
Delay condoned.2.	None
The claim arises out of a disability sustained as a result of a motor accident.	Issue
The Tribunal granted compensation to the claimant in the amount of Rs. 11,27,359 together with interest at 12 per cent per annum.	Issue
The High Court has simply reduced the interest awarded by the Tribunal to 7.5 per cent per annum while maintaining the award of compensation.	Issue
The claimant is in appeal.3.	Issue
The accident took place on 1 August 2004.	Facts
The appellant was 26 years old at the time of the accident.	Facts
The accident took place when the appellant was a pillion rider on a motor cycle ridden by one Edwin.	Facts
As the motor cycle was proceeding from Marthandam, a lorry bearing Registration No.TN 69 Z 2979 dashed against it.	Facts
The lorry thereafter dashed against an electric pole and collided with a residential property resulting in the death of an occupant of the house.	Facts
The appellant sustained serious injuries in the accident.	Facts
The injuries have been described in the evidence of PW 4, the doctor at the hospital where the appellant was treated.	Facts
The appellant sustained a fracture in his spinal cord, right leg and right hip bone.	Facts
As a result of the accident the appellant has no sensation or movement in his legs.	Facts
The Tribunal accepted the evidence of PW 4 and observed thusMoreover PW 4 the doctor has stated in his evidence that below the abdomen of the petitioner, there is no movement and sensation in two legsThe Tribunal determined the disability at 70, on the basis of medical opinion.	Facts
The Tribunal computed the compensation payable to the appellant on account of the loss of income occasioned by the disability at Rs. 9,72,000.	Facts
However, on the basis of the opinion of the doctor that the disability was to the extent of 70 per cent, the net amount was determined at Rs. 6,80,400.	Facts
After taking into account the medical and other expenses, the Tribunal awarded a total compensation of Rs. 11,27,359 together with interest of 12 per cent per annum.4.	Facts
Before the High Court, the insurer filed an appeal against the award of the Tribunal.	Facts
The appellant filed cross objections.	Facts
The High Court has reduced the interest component from 12 per cent per annum to 7.5 per cent per annum.5.	Facts
Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant submits that the High Court has not assessed the compensation in a correct manner.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was  it has been urged  no justification to compute the disability at 70 per cent.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant was at the relevant time a load man engaged by a building contractor.	Arguments of Petitioner
The nature of the disability involves a complete loss of sensation in both the legs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, it would not be possible for him to work as a load man.	Arguments of Petitioner
Moreover it was urged that there was no justification to reduce the award of interest to 7.5 per cent per annum and the award of the Tribunal on interest should be maintained.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand it has been urged on behalf of the insurer that the High Court was justified in maintaining the award of compensation since it was urged on behalf of the appellantclaimant at the hearing before the High Court that the Tribunal had granted just and reasonable compensation.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel supported the judgment of the High Court.7.	Arguments of Respondent
Having perused the order passed by the High Court, we are not in agreement with the submission of the insurer that there was a concession on the part of the appellant before the High Court which must bind him.	Reasoning
The statement made by counsel for the appellant before the High Court was on whether the Tribunal had granted just and reasonable compensation.	Reasoning
Whether in fact the compensation which has been granted is just and reasonable cannot hence be construed as a matter of concession and it would not preclude the appellant from raising a contest in these proceedings.8.	Reasoning
On perusing the record it is evident that the injuries sustained by the appellant are indeed of a serious nature.	Reasoning
As a result of the multiple fractures sustained by him, the appellant has lost complete sensation below the abdomen.	Reasoning
Evidently he cannot work any more as load man.	Reasoning
In these circumstances, the assessment of disability at 70 per cent is incorrect.	Reasoning
On a realistic view of the matter, the nature of the disability must be regarded as being complete.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, we find no reason or justification for the deduction of an amount of Rs. 2,91,600 by the Tribunal (Rs. 9,72,000 minus Rs. 6,80,400).	Reasoning
The amount so deducted must be restored and is rounded off to Rs. 3,00,000.	Reasoning
Moreover we are of the view that the appellant is entitled to interest at the rate of 9 per cent per annum from the date of the claim petition.9.	Reasoning
The appeal is accordingly allowed by enhancing the compensation granted by the Tribunal by an amount of Rs. 3,00,000.	Decision
The appellant would be entitled to interest 9 per cent per annum, on the total amount of compensation (instead and in substitution of 7.5 per annum awarded by the High Court).	Decision
The differential amount shall be paid over to the appellant within a period of eight weeks from today.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
