 Nageswara Rao, J.Leave granted.1.	None
The promotion of Respondent No. 2 to the post of Assistant Professor (Ophthalmology) and further promotion to the post of Professor (Ophthalmology) was challenged by the Appellant before the Karnataka Administrative Tribunal (for short the Tribunal).	Issue
The Tribunal set aside the orders of promotion of Respondent No. 2 to the post of Assistant Professor and Professor (Ophthalmology).	Issue
The Writ Petition filed by the Respondent No. 2 against the judgment of the Tribunal was allowed, the legality of which is assailed in this Appeal.2.	Issue
The relevant facts for adjudication of the dispute are as followsThe Appellant was appointed as Assistant Surgeon after being selected by the Karnataka Public Services Commission on 11th December, 1987 whereas Respondent No. 2 was appointed as Assistant Surgeon on 10th September, 1991.	Facts
Respondent No. 2, along with 125 other Medical Officers and Assistant Surgeons, was posted in Health Family Welfare Department as Lecturer on deputation basis by an Order dated 20th May, 1992.	Facts
The conditions attached to the deputation made in public interest were that the appointment will not confer any right to change over as lecturing staff and that the deputation duty will not be counted for seniority in the Medical Education Department.	Facts
The Appellant was permitted to change the cadre and was appointed as a Lecturer (Ophthalmology) on 10th November, 1999.	Facts
By an Order dated 15th November, 1999 the Respondent No. 2 was also permitted a change in the cadre to the post of Lecturer.	Facts
It was mentioned in the said Order that the Respondent No. 2 could not be absorbed as a Lecturer in the Department of Medical Education along with 115 other Doctors due to lack of a PostGraduate Degree.	Facts
It was further stated therein that Respondent No. 2 was permitted by the Government to pursue a PostGraduate Degree.	Facts
The Order dated 15th November, 1999 will come into force after Respondent No. 2 acquires a PostGraduate Degree.	Facts
The Respondent No. 2 completed PostGraduation after which she was appointed as a Lecturer on 18th May, 2001.	Facts
She was promoted as Assistant Professor on 6th June, 2001.	Facts
The Appellant challenged the said Order of promotion dated 6th June, 2001 before the Karnataka Administrative Tribunal.	Facts
During the pendency of the matter before the Tribunal, Respondent No. 2 was further promoted as Professor (Ophthalmology) on 1st September, 2006.	Facts
The Appellant was successful in her challenge before the Tribunal.	Facts
The High Court reversed the Order of the Tribunal by allowing the Writ Petition filed by Respondent No. 2.3.	Facts
The Tribunal held that Respondent No. 2 was a beneficiary of undue benefits.	Facts
The Tribunal found fault with the deputation of Respondent No. 2 as a Lecturer on 14th September, 1991 in spite of the fact that Respondent No. 2 did not possess a PostGraduate Degree.	Facts
The Government was criticized by the Tribunal for permitting a change in cadre to Respondent No. 2 though she was ineligible.	Facts
The promotion of Respondent No. 2 as Assistant Professor on 6th June, 2001 was held to be illegal.	Facts
On the basis of the above said findings, the Tribunal set aside the promotion of Respondent No. 2 as Assistant Professor and Professor.	Facts
The Government was directed by the Tribunal to consider the Appellant for promotion with effect from the date she became eligible.4.	Facts
The High Court reversed the judgment of the Tribunal by holding that Respondent No. 2 rendered service as Lecturer for more than nine years whereas the requisite teaching experience for promotion to the post of Assistant Professor is only three years.	Facts
The High Court held that Respondent No. 2 was entitled to be considered for promotion after acquiring a PostGraduate Degree.	Facts
The High Court relied upon a judgment of this Court in A.K. Raghumani Singh and Ors.	Facts
v. Gopal Chandra Nath and Ors.	Facts
(2000) 4 SCC 30 to hold that the service rendered by Respondent No. 2 prior to her acquiring the PostGraduate Degree can be counted towards requisite experience for the purpose of promotion to the post of Assistant Professor.5.	Facts
The point that arises for our consideration in this case is whether the service rendered by Respondent No. 2 as Lecturer before she acquired a PostGraduate Degree can be counted as qualifying service for promotion as Assistant Professor.	None
It is relevant to refer to the judgment of this Court in Shailendra Dania and Ors.	None
v. S.P. Dubey and Ors.	None
(2007) 5 SCC 535.	None
After a detailed consideration it was held therein that the earlier decisions of this Court on the above issue in N. Suresh Nathan v. Union of India 1992 Supp (1) SCC 584, M.B. Joshi v. Satish Kumar Pandey 1993	None
Supp (2) SCC 419, D. Stephen Joseph v. Union of India (1997) 4 SCC 753 , Anil Kumar Gupta v. Municipal Corporation of Delhi (2000) 1 SCC 128 , A.K. Raghumani Singh and Ors.	None
(supra) and Indian Airlines Limited v. S. Gopalakrishnan (2001) 2 SCC 362 were based on the interpretation of the respective Rules called in question, the context of the entire scheme governing service conditions and the facts of each case.	None
It is relevant to examine the legal regime in this case.	None
The Karnataka Health Family Planning services (Collegiate Branch) Recruitment Rules, 1967 govern the posts of Lecturer, Assistant Professor and Associate Professor in the Department of Ophthalmology.	None
The qualifications for promotion to the post of Assistant Professor from the cadre of Lecturer are as followsQUALIFICATIONS1.	None
Should be the holder of a degree in Medicine of any University established by law in India, 2. Should have any of the Post graduate qualifications in Ophthalmology specified in Annexure A or B and,3.	None
Should have teaching experience in Ophthalmology of not less than three years in a post of Lecturer or LecturercumRegistrar of higher post.6.	None
Promotions to the post of Associate Professor and Reader can be made from the post of Assistant Professors, Assistant Associate Professors and Lecturers in Ophthalmology.	None
The qualifications prescribed for promotion to the post of Associate Professor and Readers are as followsQUALIFICATIONS(1) Should be the holder of a degree in recognize of any University established by law in India, (2) Should have any of the Post graduate qualifications in Ophthalmology specified in Annexure A or B and,(3) Should have teaching experience in Ophthalmology of not less than three years after acquiring post graduate qualification of which not less than two years shall be in post not lower in rank that of an Assistant Associate Professors.7.	Reasoning
The teaching experience of three years as a Lecturer for the promotion to the post of Assistant Professor is in addition to the PostGraduate qualification.	Reasoning
It does not appear from the scheme of the Rules that the experience of three years should be after acquisition of PostGraduate Degree.	Reasoning
In Anil Kumar Gupta (supra), this Court considered a similar Rule where the essential qualification was a degree and two years professional experience.	Reasoning
It was held that the experience of two years after obtaining the degree was not required.	Reasoning
The Rules pertaining to promotion as Superintending Engineer fell for interpretation before this Court in A.K. Raghumanis case (supra).	Reasoning
The requirement of the Rule was that the Executive Engineer and Surveyor of Works should possess a Degree in Civil Mechanical Engineering or its equivalent from a recognized institution with 6 years regular service in the grade.	Reasoning
The word with was interpreted by this Court as follows7.	None
The word with has been defined in the New Shorter Oxford Dictionary (1993), diversely the meaning depending on the context in which it is used.	None
But when it is used to connect two nouns it means Accompanied by having as an addition or accompaniment.	None
Frequently used to connect two nouns, in the sense and  as well.8.	None
Applying the definition to the eligibility criteria it is clear that it requires the prescribed educational qualification and 6 years experience as well.	None
Given the plain meaning of the phrase, the Court would not be justified in reading a qualification into the conjunctive word and imply the word subsequent after the word with.8.	None
The High Court was right in relying upon the judgment in A.K. Raghumanis case (supra) to hold that the Rule in the instant case does not require three years teaching experience after acquisition of PostGraduate Degree.	Reasoning
The eligibility criteria for promotion as Assistant Professor are Degree in Medicine, PostGraduation qualification in Ophthalmology and three years teaching experience as Lecturer.	Reasoning
A plain reading of the qualification prescribed for promotion as Assistant Professor would make it clear that three years teaching experience as Lecturer along with a PostGraduation Degree is sufficient.	Reasoning
There is no requirement of three years experience after a person acquires PostGraduation Degree.9.	Reasoning
There is yet another reason for our conclusion that three years experience as Lecturer for promotion to the post of Assistant Professor need not be after completion of the PostGraduate Degree.	Reasoning
The Recruitment Rules prescribe qualifications for appointment to the posts of Lecturer, Assistant Professor and Associate Professor.	Reasoning
The qualifications for appointment to the posts of Assistant Professor and Associate Professor are different.	Reasoning
The teaching experience that is required for promotion to the post of Associate Professor and Reader is three years after acquiring PostGraduate qualification.	Reasoning
Whereas, the qualification for promotion to the post of Assistant Professor is teaching experience of not less than three years as a Lecturer.	Reasoning
A comparison of the qualifications prescribed for promotion to the posts of Associate Professor and Assistant Professor would make it clear that the prescription of experience after acquisition of PostGraduate qualification required for promotion to the post of Associate Professor is not part of the qualifications required for promotion as Assistant Professor.	Reasoning
A conscious omission of the condition of experience after acquiring PostGraduate Degree in the qualifications for Assistant Professor supports our view that three years experience as a Lecturer is sufficient.	Reasoning
It need not be after completion of PostGraduation.10.	None
It is necessary to refer to the other submissions that are made on behalf of the parties.	None
It has been brought to our notice by the Respondents that no appointment was made to the posts of Lecturers in Government Medical Colleges in the State of Karnataka for a long period of time between the years 1984 to 1999.	Arguments of Respondent
As there were a number of posts of Lectures vacant, the Government took a decision to post Assistant Surgeons on other duty to work as Lecturers.	Arguments of Respondent
In the above circumstances.	Arguments of Respondent
Respondent No. 2 was posted as Lecturer along with 125 other Assistant Surgeons on other duty and she worked as such for more than nine years.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the Appellant, the service rendered by Respondent No. 2 as Lecturer prior to her change of the cadre cannot be taken into account towards the requisite teaching experience.	Arguments of Petitioner
Taking into account the fact that Respondent No. 2 has worked for more than nine years as a Lecturer, we do not agree with the contention of the Appellant.	None
The Tribunal erroneously held that Respondent No. 2 was not eligible for being appointed as a Lecturer as she did not have a PostGraduation qualification in Ophthalmology.	Reasoning
The qualification for appointment as a Lecturer by direct recruitment is a Degree in Medicine, preference being given to a candidate with PostGraduation qualification in Ophthalmology.	Reasoning
The qualification prescribed for appointment by transfer to the post of Lecturer is a Degree in Medicine and PostGraduation qualification in Ophthalmology.	Reasoning
It is clear that a PostGraduation qualification is required for appointment by transfer as a Lecturer.	Reasoning
Respondent No. 2 was appointed by transfer as a Lecturer in 2001 after acquiring a PostGraduate qualification.	Reasoning
It was not necessary that Respondent No. 2 should have possessed a PostGraduation qualification for working as a Lecturer on other duty as the qualification for appointment as a Lecturer by direct recruitment was only Graduation.	Reasoning
In any event, a number of Assistant Surgeons along with Respondent No. 2 were directed to work as Lecturers in view of an administrative exigency that arose due to the existence of several vacancies in the post of Lecturers.	Reasoning
There were other graduate Assistant Surgeons who were appointed on other duty as Lecturers and appointed by transfer as Lecturers after acquiring a PostGraduate Degree.	Reasoning
We do not agree with the Appellant that Respondent No. 2 was not qualified for being sent on other duty as a Lecturer.11.	Reasoning
For the aforementioned reasons, the Appeal is dismissed.	Decision
Contempt Petition (Civil) No. 716 of 2018 in Civil Appeal arising out of Special Leave Petition (Civil) No. 1775 of 201212.	None
The Contempt Petition has been filed for willful violation of the Orders passed by this Court on 27th January, 2017 and 8th February, 2016 in the above Appeal.	Issue
While issuing notice on 27th January, 2012 an Order of status quo was passed.	Facts
The Order dated 27th January, 2012 was clarified on 8th February, 2016 wherein it was made clear that the Order of status quo was restricted to the post of Professor and above and not with reference to other posts.13.	Facts
Respondent No. 2 was appointed as Head of the Department of Ophthalmology subject to the final decision in the above Appeal.	Facts
It was mentioned in the Order dated 5th January, 2018 that the arrangement was temporary in nature and Respondent No. 2 was placed InCharge of the post of the Head of the Department.14.	Facts
Respondent No. 2 was only placed InCharge of the post of Head of Department of Ophthalmology temporarily in the interest of administration.	Reasoning
We do not agree with the Appellant Applicant that there has been any willful violation of the Interim Orders passed by this Court on 27th January, 2012 and 8th February, 2016.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the Contempt Petition is dismissed.	Decision
