 RANGANATHAN J.	None
This is the assessees appeal from a judgment of the Madras High Court dated January 10, 1975, answering three questions referred to it by the Incometax Appellate Tribunal in favour of the Revenue and against the assessee.	Facts
The reference related to the assessment year 196162, the previous year in respect of which commenced on April 13, 1960.	Facts
The judgment of the High Court is reported as A. L. A. Firm v. CIT 1976 (102) ITR 622 The appellantassessee is a partnership firm.	Facts
Since 1949, it was carrying on in Malaya a money lending business and, as part of and incidental to the said business, a business in the purchase and sale of house properties, gardens and estates.	Facts
It had been reconstituted under a deed dated March 26, 1960.	Facts
The firms accounts for the year 196061, which commenced on April 13, 1960, would normally have come to a close on or about April 13, 1961.	Facts
However, the firm closed its accounts as on March 13, 1961, with effect from which date it was dissolved.	Facts
Along with its incometax return for the assessment year 196162 filed on April 10, 1962, the assessee filed a profit and loss account and certain other statements.	Facts
In the profit and loss account, a sum of 101, 248 was shown as difference on revaluation of estates, gardens and house properties on the dissolution of the firm on March 13, 1961, such difference being 70, 500 in respect of house properties and 30, 748 in respect of estates and gardens.	Facts
In the memo of adjustment for incometax purposes, however, the above sum was deducted on the ground that it was not assessable either as revenue or capital.	Facts
A statement was also made before the officer that partner Ramanathan Chettiar forming one group and the other partners forming another group were carrying on business separately with the assets and liabilities that fell to their shares on the dissolution of the firmThe Incometax Officer issued a notice under section 23(2) on the same day April 10, 1962, posting the hearing for the same day and completed the assessment also on the same day, after making a petty addition of Rs. 2, 083 paid as property tax in Malaya, and recording the following noteAudit assistantLakshmanan appearsReturn filedI. T. 1986 acknowledged in list of books  Scrutinised  Order dictated.	Facts
For the subsequent assessment year 196263, the assessee filed return showing nil income along with a letter pointing out that the firm had been dissolved on March 13, 1961.	Facts
Thereafter, on September 3, 1963, the Incometax Officer wrote a letter to the assessee to the effect that the revaluation difference of 101, 248 should have been brought to tax in the assessment year 196162 in view of the decision of the Madras High Court in G. R. Ramachari and Co. v. CIT 1961 (41) ITR 142.	Facts
He called for the basis for the valuation and also for the assessees objections.	Facts
The assessee sent a reply stating that no profit or loss could be assessed on revaluation of assets.	Facts
Relying on a circular of the Central Board of Revenue dated June 21, 1956, it was urged that the assessee was gradually winding up its business in Malaya and that, therefore, the surplus would only be capital gains.	Facts
It was urged that the revaluation had been at the market price prevalent since January 1, 1954 and that, therefore, no capital gains were chargeable to tax.	Facts
The Incometax Officer followed up his letter by a notice under section 148 read with section 147(b).	Facts
The assessee objected to the reassessment on two grounds (1) that the circumstances did not justify the initiation of proceedings under section 147(b) and (2) that no assessable profits arose to the firm on the revaluation of assets on the eve of the dissolution of the firm.	Facts
Overruling these objections, the Incometax Officer completed a reassessment on the firm after adding back the sum of Rs. 1, 58, 057 (the equivalent of 101, 248) to the previously assessed income.	Facts
The assessees successive appeals to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Appellate Tribunal and a reference, at, its instance, to the High Court having failed, the assessee is before usThree questions of law were referred to the High Court by the Tribunal.	Facts
These were ( 1976 (102) ITR 622 , 626)1.	Facts
Whether, on the facts and circumstances of the case, the reassessment made on the assesseefirm for the assessment year 196162 under section 147 of the Incometax Act is valid in law ?	Facts
2.	Facts
Whether, on the facts and circumstances of the case, the assessment of the sum of 101, 248 as revenue profit of the assesseefirm chargeable to tax for the assessment year 196162 is justified in law ?	Facts
3.	Facts
Whether, on the facts and circumstances of the case, the Appellate Tribunal is right in law in sustaining the assessment of the sum of 101, 248 after having found that the departmental officers are bound by the circular of the Central Board of Revenue?	Issue
We may deal at the outset with the third question.	None
Though the High Court has dealt with this question at some length, we do not think any answer to this question can or need be furnished by us for the following reasons.	Reasoning
First, the assessee has not been able to place before us the circular of the Board on which reliance is placed.	Reasoning
It is not clear whether it is circular or a communication of some other nature.	Reasoning
Second, the circular, to judge from its purport set out in the High Courts judgment, seems to have been to the effect that the surplus arising from the sale of properties acquired by a moneylender in the course of his business would be in the nature of capital gains and not of income.	Reasoning
Obviously, such a proposition could not have been intended as a broad or general proposition of law, for the nature of the surplus on sale of assets would depend on the nature of the asset sold and this, in turn, would depend on the facts and circumstances of each case.	Reasoning
In this case, no material was placed at any stage to show that the assets in question constituted the capital assets of the firm and not its stockintrade.	Reasoning
Third, the plea of the assessee which was in issue all through was that there was no sale of assets by the firm when its assets are distributed among its partners and that no profitswhether capital or revenuecould be said to arise to the firm merely because, at the time of the dissolution, the firm revalued its assets on the basis of the market value or any other basis, for adjusting the mutual rights and liabilities of the partners on the dissolution of the firm.	Reasoning
The terms of the circular as set out in the order of the High Court cannot, therefore, be of any assistance to the assessee in answering the issues in this case.	Reasoning
We, therefore, do not answer the third question posed by the TribunalTurning now to the first question, the relevant facts have already been noticed.	Reasoning
The following relevant and material facts, viz., (i) the dissolution of the firm, (ii) the revaluation of its assets, (iii) the distribution thereof among two groups of its partners, and (iv) the division and crediting of the surplus on revaluation to the partners accounts were not only reflected in the balancesheet, the profit and loss account and the profit and loss adjustment account but were also mentioned in the statement filed before the Incometax Officer along with the return.	Reasoning
Clearly, action under section 148 read with clause (a) of section 147 could not be initiated in these circumstances but is action under clause (b) of that section also impermissible ?	None
That is the question We may now set out the provisions of clause (b) of section 147 for purposes of easy reference.	None
This clause which corresponds to section 34(1)(b) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 (the 1922 Act), permits initiation of reassessment proceedings, notwithstanding that there has been no omission or failure as mentioned in clause (a) on the part of the assessee provided the Incometax Officer has, in consequence of information in his possession, reason to believe that income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment In the present case, on the information already on record and in view of the decision in G. R. Ramachari and Co. v. CIT 1961 (41) ITR 142 (Mad) , there can be no doubt that the Incometax Officer could reasonably come to the conclusion that income, profits and gains assessable for the assessment year 196162 had escaped assessment.	None
But, is that belief reached in consequence of information in his possession?	None
The assessees counsel says no, for, says he, it is settled law that the information referred to in clause (b) above, should be information received by the Incometax Officer after he had completed the original assessment.	None
Here, it is pointed out that all the relevant facts as well as the decision in G. R. Ramachari and Co. v. CIT 1961 (41) ITR 142 (Mad) had been available when the original assessment was completed on April 10, 1962.	None
Action cannot be taken under this clause merely because the Incometax Officer, who originally considered the surplus to be not assessable, has, on the same facts and the same case law which had been available to him when he completed the assessment originally, changed his opinion and now thinks that the surplus should have been charged to taxThe validity of the assessees argument has to be tested in the light of the decisions of this court which have interpreted section 147(b) of the 1961 Act or its predecessor section 34(1)(b) of the 1922 Act and expounded its parameters.	None
We may start with the decision in Maharaj Kumar Kamal Singh v. CIT 1959 35 ITR I (SC).	None
In this case, it was held that the word information would include information as to the true and correct state of the law and would also cover information as to relevant judicial decisions.	None
In that case, the Incometax Officer had reopened the assessment on the basis of a subsequent decision of the Privy Council and this was upheld.	None
Referring to the use of the word escape in the section, the court observed (at p. 8)	None
In our opinion, even in a case where a return has been submitted, if the Incometax Officer erroneously fails to tax a part of assessable income, it is a case where the said part of the income has escaped assessment.	None
The appellants attempt to put a very narrow and artificial limitation on the meaning of the word escape in section 34(1)(b) cannot, therefore, succeed.	None
(underlining ours)	None
The meaning of the word information was again explained thus in CIT v. A. Raman and Co. 1968 (67) ITR 11 , 15, 16 (SC)	None
The expression information in the context in which it occurs must, in our judgment, mean instruction or knowledge derived from an external source concerning facts or particulars or as to law relating to matter bearing on the assessment Jurisdiction of the Incometax Officer to reassess income arises if he has in consequence of information in his possession reason to believe that income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment.	None
That information, must, it is true, have come into the possession of the Incometax Officer after the previous assessment, but even if the information be such that it could have been obtained during the previous assessment from an investigation of the materials on the record, or the facts disclosed thereby or from other enquiry or research into facts or law, but was not in fact obtained, the jurisdiction of the Incometax Officer is not affected.	None
(underlining ours)We may next refer to Kalyanji Mavji and Co. v. CIT 1976 (102) ITR 287 (SC).	None
It is unnecessary to set out the facts of this case.	None
It is sufficient to refer to the enunciation of the law regarding the scope of section 34(1)(b) as culled out from the earlier decisions of this court on the subject.	None
At page 296, the court observed On a combined review of the decisions of this court the following tests and principles would apply to determine the applicability of section 34(1)(b) to the following categories of cases (1) where the information is as to the true and correct state of the law derived from relevant judicial decisions (2) where in the original assessment the income liable to tax has escaped assessment due to oversight, inadvertence or a mistake committed by the Incometax Officer.	None
This is obviously based on the principle that the taxpayer would not be allowed to take advantage of an oversight or mistake committed by the taxing authority (3) where the information is derived from an external source of any kind.	None
Such external source would include discovery of new and important matters or knowledge of fresh facts which were not present at the time of the original assessment (4) where the information may be obtained even from the record of the original assessment from the investigation of the materials on the record, or the facts disclosed thereby or from other enquiry or research into facts or law.	None
Before applying the above principles to the facts of the present case, we may refer to two earlier decisions of the Madras High Court which have been followed in the judgment under appeal.	None
In Salem Provident Fund Society Ltd. v. CIT 1961 (42) ITR 547 (Mad) the Incometax Officer, in calculating the annual profits of an insurance company, had, under the statute, to work out the difference between the deficiencies as shown in the actuarial valuation of the company in respect of two successive valuation periods.	None
At the time of original assessment, the Incometax Officer, by mistake, added the two deficiencies instead of subtracting one from the other.	None
This mistake he committed not in one assessment year but in two assessment years.	None
Subsequently, he discovered his mistake and initiated proceedings under section 34(1)(b).	None
The contention urged on behalf of the assessee was that all the statements on the basis of which the reassessment proceedings were taken were already on record and that, in such a case, there was no information which would justify the reassessment.	None
An argument was also raised that the rectification, if any, could have been carried out only under section 35 and not under section 34.	None
These contentions were repelled.	None
In regard to the former objection, the High Court pointed out (p. 564)	None
We are unable to accept the extreme proposition, that nothing that can be found in the record of the assessment, which itself would show escape of assessment or underassessment, can be viewed as information which led to the belief that there has been escape from assessment or underassessment.	None
Suppose a mistake in the original order of assessment is not discovered by the Incometax Officer himself on further scrutiny but it is brought to his notice by another assessee or even by a subordinate or superior officer, that would appear to be information disclosed to the Incometax Officer.	None
If the mistake itself is not extraneous to the record and the informant gathered the information from the record, the immediate source of information to the Incometax Officer in such circumstances is in one sense extraneous to the record.	None
It is difficult to accept the position that while what is seen by another in the record is information what is seen by the Incometax Officer himself is not information to him.	None
In the latter case he just informs himself.	None
It will be information in his possession within the meaning of section 34.	None
In such cases of obvious mistake apparent on the face of the record of assessment, that record itself can be source of information, if that information leads to a discovery or belief that there has been an escape of assessment or underassessment.	None
A similar question arose in CIT v. Rathinasabapathy Mudaliar 1964 (51) ITR 204 (Mad) .	None
In that case, the assessee who was a partner in firm did not include in his return the income of his minor son admitted to the benefits of the partnership as required by section 16(3) of the 1922 Act.	None
The minor son submitted a separate return and was assessed on this income.	None
Subsequently, the Incometax Officer discovered his error in not assessing the father thereon and started reassessment proceedings.	None
The reassessment was upheld by the Madras High Court on the same logic as had been applied in Salem Provident Fund Society Ltd.s case 1961 (42) ITR 547 (Mad) .	None
The above line of thinking has not only held the field for about thirty years now but has also received approval in Anandji Haridas and Co. (P.) Ltd. v. S. P. Kushare, STO 1968 (21)	None
STC 326 (SC)This issue has further been considered in the decision of this court in the case of Indian and Eastern Newspaper Society v. CIT 1979 (119) ITR 996.	None
In this case, the income of the assessee derived by letting out certain portions of the building owned by it to its members as well as to outsiders was being assessed as business income.	None
In the course of audit, an internal audit party expressed the view that the money realised by the assessee on account of any occupation of its conference hall and rooms should have been assessed under the head Income from property and not as business income.	None
The Incometax Officer, thereupon, initiated reassessment proceedings and this was upheld by the Tribunal.	None
On a direct reference under section 257 of the Act, this court held that the opinion of the audit party on a point of law could not be regarded as information and that the initiation of the reassessment proceedings was not justified.	None
It was contended for the Revenue, that the reassessment proceedings would be valid even on this premise.	None
Dealing with this argument, the court observed (p. 1004)	None
Now, in the case before us, the Incometax Officer had, when he made the original assessment, considered the provisions of sections 9 and 10.	None
Any different view taken by him afterwards on the application of those provisions would amount to a change of opinion on material already considered by him.	None
The Revenue contends that it is open to him to do so, and on that basis to reopen the assessment under section 147(b).	None
Reliance is placed on Kalyanji Mavji and Co. v. CIT 1976 (102) ITR 287 (SC), where a Bench of two learned judges of this court observed that a case where income had escaped assessment due to the oversight, inadvertence or mistake of the Incometax Officer must fall within section 34(1)(b) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922.	None
It appears to us, with respect, that the proposition is stated too widely and travels farther than the statute warrants In so far as it can be said to lay down that if, on reappraising the material considered by him during the original assessment, the Incometax Officer discovers that he has committed an error in consequence of which income has escaped assessment, it is open to him to reopen the assessment.	None
In our opinion, an error discovered on a reconsideration of the same material (and no more) does not give him that power.	None
That was the view taken by this court in Maharaj Kumar Kamal Singh v. CIT 1959 (35) ITR 1 (SC), CIT v. A. Raman and Co. 1968 (67) ITR 11 (SC) and Bankipur Club Ltd. v. CIT 1971 (82) ITR 831 (SC) and we do not believe that the law has since taken a different course.	None
Any observations in Kalyanji Mavji and Co. v. CIT 1976 (102) ITR 287 (SC) suggesting the contrary do not, we say with respect, lay down the correct law.	None
(underlining ours)The court proceeded further to observe (p. 1005)	None
A further submission raised by the Revenue on section 147(b) of the Act may be considered at this stage.	None
It is urged that the expression information in section 147(b) refers to the realisation by the Incometax Officer that he has committed an error when making the original assessment.	None
It is said that, when upon receipt of the audit note the Incometax Officer discovers or realises that a mistake has been committed in the original assessment, the discovery of the mistake would be information within the meaning of section 147(b).	None
The submission appears to us inconsistent with the terms of section 147(b).	None
Plainly, the statutory provision envisages that the Incometax Officer must first have information in his possession, and then in consequence of such information he must have reason to believe that income has escaped assessment.	None
The realisation that income has escaped assessment is covered by the words reason to believe and it follows from the information received by the Incometax Officer.	None
The information is not the realisation, the information gives birth to the realisation.	None
Sri Ramachandran submits that these decisions support his contention that reassessment proceedings can be validly initiated only if there is some information received by the Incometax Officer from an external source after the completion of the original assessment but not in a case like the present where there is nothing more before the Incometax Officer than what was available to him when the original assessment was completed.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also submits that the observations in Indian and Eastern Newspaper Societys case 1979 (119) ITR 996 (SC) have cast doubts on the propositions enunciated in Kalyanji Mavjis case 1976 (102) ITR 287 (SC) and reiterates the proposition that reassessment proceedings cannot be availed of to revise, on the same material, the opinion formed or conclusion arrived at earlier in favour of the assesseeOn the other hand, Dr. Gauri Shankar, appearing for the Revenue, mentioned that the decision in Indian and Eastern Newspaper Societys case 1979 (119) ITR 996 (SC) holding that the opinion of an audit party would not constitute information and qualifying the principles enunciated in Kalyanji Mavji 1976 (102) ITR 287 (SC) is pending consideration by larger Bench of this court.	Arguments of Petitioner
He, however, submitted that the reassessment in this case would be valid even on the strength of the observations in Indian and Eastern Newspaper Societys case 1979 (119) ITR 996 (SC).	Arguments of Respondent
We shall proceed to consider the correctness of this submission We have pointed out earlier that Kalyanji Mavji 1976 (102) ITR 287 (SC) outlines four situations in which action under section 34(1)(b) can be validly initiated.	None
Indian and Eastern Newspaper Societys case 1979 (119) ITR 996 (SC) has only indicated that proposition (2) outlined in this case and extracted earlier may have been somewhat widely stated it has not cast any doubt on the other three propositions set out in Kalyanji Mavji.s case 1976 (102) ITR 287 (SC).	None
The facts of the present case squarely fall within the scope of propositions (2) and (4) enunciated in Kalyanji Mavjis case 1976 (102) ITR 287 (SC).	None
Proposition (2) may be briefly summarised as permitting action even on a mere change of opinion.	None
This is what has been doubted in Indian and Eastern Newspaper Societys case 1979 (119) ITR 996 (SC) and we shall discuss its application to this case a little later.	None
But, even leaving this out of consideration, there can be no doubt that the present case is squarely covered by proposition (4) set out in Kalyanji Mavji and Co. 1976 (102) ITR 287 (SC).	None
This proposition clearly envisages a formation of opinion by the Incometax Officer on the basis of material already on record provided the formation of such opinion is consequent on information in the shape of some light thrown on aspects of facts or law which the Incometax Officer had not earlier been conscious of.	None
To give a couple of illustrations suppose an Incometax Officer, in the original assessment which is a voluminous one involving several contentions accepts a plea of the assessee in regard to one of the items that the profits realised on the sale of a house is a capital realisation not chargeable to tax.	None
Subsequently, he finds, in the forest of papers filed in connection, with the assessment, several instances of earlier sales of house property by the assessee.	None
That would be a case where the Incometax Officer derives information from the record on an investigation or enquiry into facts not originally undertaken.	None
Again, suppose an Incometax Officer accepts the plea of an assessee that a particular receipt is not income liable to tax.	None
But, on further research into law, he finds that there was a direct decision holding that category of receipt to be an income receipt.	None
He would be entitled to reopen the assessment under section 147(b) by virtue of proposition (4) of Kalyanji Mavji 1976 (102) ITR 287 (SC).	None
The fact that the details of sales of house properties were already in the file or that the decision subsequently come across by him was already there, would not affect the position because the information that such facts or decision existed, comes to him only much laterWhat then, is the difference between the situations envisaged in propositions (2) and (4) of Kalyanji Mavji 1976 (102) ITR 287 (SC).	None
The difference, if one keeps in mind the trend of the judicial decisions, is this.	None
Proposition (4) refers to a case where the Incometax Officer initiates reassessment proceedings in the light of information obtained by him by an investigation into material already on record or by research into the law applicable thereto which has brought out an angle or aspect that had been missed earlier, e.g., as in the two Madras decisions referred to earlier.	None
Proposition (2) no doubt covers this situation also but it is so widely expressed as to include also cases in which the Incometax Officer having considered all the facts and law, arrives at a particular conclusion, but reinitiates proceedings because, on a reappraisal of the same material which had been considered earlier and in the light of the same legal aspects to which his attention had been drawn earlier, he comes to a conclusion that an item of income which he had earlier consciously left out from the earlier assessment should have been brought to tax.	None
In other words, as pointed out in Indian and Eastern Newspaper Societys case 1979 (119) ITR 996 (SC), it also ropes in cases of a bare or mere change of opinion where the Incometax Officer (very often a successor officer) attempts to reopen the assessment because the opinion formed earlier by himself (or, more often, by a predecessor Incometax Officer) was, in his opinion, incorrect.	None
Judicial decisions had consistently held that this could not be done and Indian and Eastern Newspaper Societys case 1979 (119) ITR 996 (SC) has warned that this line of cases cannot be taken to have been overruled by Kalyanji Mavji 1976 (102) ITR 287 (SC).	None
The second paragraph from the judgment in Indian and Eastern Newspaper Societys case 1979 (119) ITR 996 (SC) earlier extracted has also reference only to this situation and insists upon the necessity of some information which makes the Incometax Officer realise that he has committed an error in the earlier assessment.	None
This paragraph does not in any way affect the principle enumerated in the two Madras cases cited with approval in Anandji Haridas 1968 (21) STC 326 (SC).	None
Even making allowances for this limitation placed on the observations in Kalyanji Mavji 1976 (102) ITR 287 (SC), the position as summarised by the High Court in the following words represents, in our view, the correct position in law (at p. 629 of 102 ITR) The result of these decisions is that the statute does not require that the information must be extraneous to the record.	None
It is enough if the material, on the basis of which the reassessment proceedings are sought to be initiated, came to the notice of the Incometax Officer subsequent to the original assessment.	None
If the Incometax Officer had considered and formed an opinion on the said material in the original assessment itself, then he would be powerless to start the proceedings for the reassessment.	None
Where, however, the Incometax Officer had not considered the material and subsequently came by the material from the record itself, then such a case would fall within the scope of section 147 (b) of the Act.	None
Let us now examine the position in the present case keeping in mind the narrow but real distinction pointed out above.	None
On behalf of the assessee, it is emphasised (a) that the amount of surplus is a very substantial amount, (b) that full details of the manner in which it had resulted had been disclosed, (c) that the profit and loss account, the profit and loss adjustment account and statement made before the Incometax Officer had brought into focus the question of taxability of the surplus, and (d) that the decision in G. R. Ramacharis case 1961 (41) ITR 142 (Mad) , had been reported by April 10, 1962.	None
No Incometax Officer can be presumed to have completed the assessment without looking at all of this material and the said decision.	None
No doubt, some doubt had been thrown as to whether statement had been given at the time of original assessment that the amount of surplus was not taxable as income or as a capital gain but the case has proceeded on the footing that such a statement was there before the officer.	None
This, therefore, is nothing but a case of change of opinion.	None
On the other hand, the authorities and the Tribunal have drawn attention to the fact that the return, the section 143(2) notice and assessment were all on the same day and counsel for the Revenue urged that, obviously, in his haste, the Incometax Officer had not looked into the facts at all.	None
It is urged that no Incometax Officer who had looked into the facts and the law could have failed to bring the surplus to tax in view of the then recent pronouncement in G. R. Ramacharis case 1961 (41) ITR 142 (Mad) .	None
Dr. Gauri Shankar submitted that the Tribunal has found that the Incometax Officer had acted mechanically in accepting the return without bringing his mind to play upon the entry in the statement with reference to the distribution of the assets.	None
He pointed out that there is no evidence of any enquiry with reference to this aspect and that, the amount involved being sufficiently large, the Incometax Officer, if he had been aware of the existence of the entry would certainly have discussed it.	None
He urged that the question whether the Incometax Officer had considered this matter at the time of the original assessment or not is purely a question of fact and the Tribunals conclusion thereon having been endorsed by the High Court, there is no justification to interfere with it at this stageWe think there is force in the argument on behalf of the assessee that, in the face of all the details and statement placed before the Incometax Officer at the time of the original assessment, it is difficult to take the view that the Incometax Officer had not at all applied his mind to the question whether the surplus is taxable or not.	None
It is true that the return was filed and the assessment was completed on the same date.	None
Nevertheless, it is opposed to normal human conduct that an officer would complete the assessment without looking at the material placed before him.	None
It is not as if the assessment record contained a large number of documents or the case raised complicated issues rendering it probable that the Incometax Officer had missed these facts.	None
It is a case where there is only one contention raised before the Incometax Officer and it is, we think, impossible to hold that the Incometax Officer did not at all look at the return filed by the assessee or the statements accompanying it.	None
The more reasonable view to take would, in our opinion, be that the Incometax Officer looked at the facts and accepted the assessees contention that the surplus was not taxable.	None
But, in doing so, he obviously missed to take note of the law laid down in G. R. Ramachari and Co. 1961 (41) ITR 142 (Mad) which, there is nothing to show, had been brought to his notice.	None
When he subsequently became aware of the decision, he initiated proceedings under section 147(b).	None
The material which constituted information and on the basis of which the assessment was reopened was the decision in G. R. Ramachari and Co. 1961 (41) ITR 142 (Mad) .	None
This material was not considered at the time of the original assessment.	None
Though it was a decision of 1961 and the Incometax Officer could have known of it had he been diligent, the obvious fact is that he was not aware of the existence of that decision then and, when he came to know about it, he rightly initiated proceedings for reassessmentWe may point out that the position here is more favourable to the Revenue than that which prevailed in the Madras cases referred to earlier.	None
There, what the Incometax Officer had missed earlier was the true purport of the relevant statutory provisions.	None
It seems somewhat difficult to believe that the Incometax Officer could have failed to read properly the statutory provisions applicable directly to the facts before him (though that is what seems to have happened).	None
Perhaps, an equally plausible view on the facts could have been taken that he had considered them and decided, in one case, not to apply them and in the other, on a wrong construction thereof.	None
In the present case, on the other hand, the material on which the Incometax Officer has taken action is a judicial decision.	None
This had been pronounced just a few months earlier to the original assessment and it is not difficult to see that the Incometax Officer must have missed it or else he could not have completed the assessment as he did.	None
Indeed it has not been suggested that he was aware of it and yet chose not to apply it.	None
It is, therefore, much easier to see that the initiation of reassessment proceedings here is based on definite material not considered at the time of the original assessment In the above view of the matter, we uphold the High Courts view on the first question The second question raises a more difficult problem.	None
There can be no doubt that the decision of the Madras High Court in G. R. Ramachari and Co. 1961 (41) ITR 142 (Mad) squarely covers the situation.	None
G. R. Ramachari and Co. 1961 (41) ITR 142 (Mad) holds that the principle of valuing the closing stock of a business at cost or market price at the option of the assessee is a principle that would hold good only so long as there is a continuing business and that where a business is discontinued, whether on account of dissolution or closure or otherwise by the assessee, then the profits cannot be ascertained except by taking the closing stock at market value.	None
G. R. Ramachari and Co. 1961 (41) ITR 142 (Mad) has subsequently been followed by the Kerala High Court in Popular Workshops v. CIT 1987 (166) ITR 348 and in Popular Automobiles v. CIT 1989 (179) ITR 632Shri Ramachandran contends that the decision in G. R. Ramachari and Co. 1961 (41) ITR 142 (Mad) does not lay down the correct law.	None
He submits that, while it is no doubt true that the closing stock has to be valued, the well settled principle is that it should be valued at cost or market price whichever is lower and there is no justification for laying down a different principle for valuation of the closing stock at the point of discontinuance of business unless the goods are actually sold by the assessee at the time of discontinuance.	None
Further, it has been held by a series of decisions of this court that when a firm is dissolved and the assets are distributed among the partners, there is no sale or transfer of the assets of the firm to the various partners vide, Addanki Narayanappa v. Bhaskara Krishnappa, 1966 AIR(SC) 1300 1966 (3) SCR 400 , CIT v. Dewas Cine Corporation 1968 (68) ITR 240 , CIT v. Bankey	None
Lal Vaidya 1971 (79) ITR 594 , Malabar Fisheries Co. v. CIT 1979 (120) ITR 49 and in Sunil Siddharthbhai v. CIT 1985 (156) ITR 509.	None
He submits that, in logical sequence, dissolution comes first and distribution of assets comes later.	None
Therefore, revaluation of the assets of a firm which is only for the division of the assets among the partners on a real and not a notional basis is part of the division of the assets and, therefore, logically, in point of time, subsequent to the dissolution of the firm.	None
Since the revaluation takes place after the dissolution, no profits can be said to have accrued to the firm by the process of revaluation.	None
The revaluation of the assets is not in the course of business and is not an activity which can partake of the nature of trade.	None
Assuming but not conceding that it is possible to have a revaluation of the assets, for example, stockintrade, before dissolution, any excess which arises on the revaluation is only an imaginary or notional profit and cannot be brought to tax for the following reasons(i) As a result of such revaluation, there can be no profit, because the firm cannot make a profit out of itself vide Kikabhai Premchand v. CIT 1953 (24) ITR 506 (SC)	None
The process of revaluation of stock by itself cannot bring in any real profits vide CIT v. K. A. R. K. Firm 1934 (2) ITR 183 (Rang) Chainrup Sampatram v. CIT 1953 (24) ITR 481 (SC) and CIT v. Hind Construction Ltd. 1972 (83) ITR 211 (SC) and It is wellsettled that what is taxable under the incometax law is only real income vide CIT v. Shoorji Vallabhdas and Co. 1962 (46) ITR 144 (SC) and CIT v. Birla Gwalior (P.) Ltd. 1973 (89) ITR 266 (SC)	None
There is, therefore, no principle by which the stockintrade can be valued at market price so as to bring to tax the notional profits which might in future be realised as a result of the sale of the stockintrade The question posed before us is a difficult one.	None
We think, however, that the High Court was right in pointing out that the several decisions relied upon for the assessee as to the nature of the transaction by which a firm, on dissolution, distributes its assets among its partners, have no relevance in the present case.	None
As the High Court rightly observed, those cases relate to what happens after or in consequence of the dissolution of a firm whereas we are here concerned with a question that arises before or at the time of dissolution.	None
What we have to decide is the basis on which, in making up the accounts of a firm up to the date of dissolution, the closing stock with the firm as at a point of time immediately prior to the dissolution is to be valued.	None
It is this principle that has been decided in G. R. Ramachari and Co. 1961 (41) ITR 142 (Mad) and the High Court decisions following it (including the one under appeal) and the question is whether they lay down the correct lawIn the first place, it is settled law that the true trading results of business for an accounting period cannot be ascertained without taking into account the value of the stockintrade remaining at the end of the period.	None
Though, as pointed out by this court in Chainrup Sampatram V. CIT 1953 (24) ITR 481 , it is a misconception to think that any profit arises out of the valuation of closing stock, it is equally true that such valuation is a necessary element in the process of determining the trading results of the period.	None
This is true in respect of any method of accounting and in CIT v. A. Krishnaswami Mudaliar 1964 (53) ITR 122 , this court pointed out that, even where the assessee is following the cash system of accounting, the valuation of closing stock cannot be dispensed with.	None
In this decision, this court quoted with approval the following observations in CIR v. Cock, Russell and Co. Ltd. 1949 29	None
TC 387 (p. 131 of 53 ITR) There is no word in the statutes or rules which deals with this question of valuing stockintrade.	None
There is nothing in the relevant legislation which indicates that in computing the profits and gains of a commercial concern the stockintrade at the start of the accounting period should be taken in and that the amount of the stockintrade at the end of the period should also be taken in.	None
It would be fantastic not to do it it would be utterly impossible accurately to assess profits and gains merely on statement of receipts and payments or on the basis of turnover.	None
It has long been recognised that the right method of assessing profits and gains is to take into account the value of the stockintrade at the beginning and the value of the stockintrade at the end as two of the items in the computation.	None
I need not cite authority for the general proposition, which is admitted at the Bar, that for the purposes of ascertaining profits and gains the ordinary principles of commercial accounting should be applied, so long as they do not conflict with any express provision of the relevant statutes.	None
Next, the principles as to the, method of valuation of closing stock are equally wellsettled.	None
Lord President Clyde set these out in Whimster and Co. v. CIR 1925 12 TC 813 (C Sess) in the following words (p. 132 of 53 ITR) In computing the balance of profits and gains for the purposes of incometax two general and fundamental commonplaces have always to be kept in mind.	None
In the first place, the profits of any particular year or accounting period must be taken to consist of the difference between the receipts from the trade or business during such year or accounting period and the expenditure laid out to earn those receipts.	None
In the second place, the account of profit and loss to be made up for the purpose of ascertaining that difference must be framed consistently with the ordinary principles of commercial accounting, so far as applicable, and in conformity with the rules of the Incometax Act, or of that Act as modified by the provisions and schedules of the Acts regulating excess profits duty, as the case may be.	None
For example, the ordinary principles of commercial accounting require that in the profit and loss account of a merchants or manufacturers business the values of the stockintrade at the beginning and at the end of the period covered by the account should be entered at cost or market price, whichever is the lower although there is nothing about this in the taxing statutes.	None
The principle behind permitting the assessee to value the stock at cost is very simple.	None
In the words of Bose J. in Kikabhai Premchand v. CIT 1953 (24) ITR 506 (SC), it is this (p. 510)	None
The appellants method of bookkeeping reflects the true position.	None
As he makes his purchases he enters his stock at the cost price on one side of the accounts.	None
At the close of the year he enters the value of any unsold stock at cost on the other side of the accounts thus cancelling out the entries relating to the same unsold stock earlier in the accounts and then that is carried forward as the opening balance in the next years account.	None
This cancelling out of the unsold stock from both sides of the accounts leaves only the transactions on which there have been actual sales and gives a true and actual profit or loss on his years dealings.	None
As against this, the valuation of the closing stock at market value will invariably create a problem.	None
For, if the market value is higher than cost, the accounts will reflect notional profits not actually realised.	None
On the other hand, if the market value is less, the assessee will get the benefit of notional loss he has not incurred.	None
Nevertheless, as mentioned earlier, the ordinary principles of commercial accounting permit valuation at cost or market, whichever is the lower.	None
The rationale behind this has been explained by Patanjali Sastri C. J. in Chainrup Sampatram v. CIT 1953 (24) ITR 481 (SC), where an attempt was made to value the closing stock at a market value higher than cost.	None
The learned Chief Justice observed (p. 485)	None
It is wrong to assume that the valuation of the closing stock at market rate has, for its object, the bringing into charge any appreciation in the value of such stock.	None
The true purpose of crediting the value of unsold stock is to balance the cost of those goods entered on the other side of the account at the time of their purchase, so that the cancelling out of the entries relating to the same stock from both sides of the account would leave only the transactions on which there have been actual sales in the course of the year showing the profit or loss actually realised on the years trading.	None
As pointed out in paragraph 8 of the Report of the Committee on Financial Risks attaching to the holding of Trading Stocks, 1919, As the entry for stock which appears in a trading account is merely intended to cancel the charge for the goods purchased which have not been sold, it should necessarily represent the cost of the goods.	None
If it is more or less than the cost, then the effect is to state the profit on the goods which actually have been sold at the incorrect figure From this rigid doctrine one exception is very generally recognised on prudential grounds and is now fully sanctioned by custom, viz., the adoption of market value at the date of making up accounts, if that value is less, than cost.	None
It is of course an anticipation of the loss that may be made on those goods in the following year, and may even have the effect, if prices rise again, of attributing to the following years results a greater amount of profit than the difference between the actual sale price and the actual cost price of the goods in question (extracted in paragraph 281 of the Report of the Committee on the Taxation of Trading Profits presented to British Parliament in April 1951).	None
While anticipated loss is thus taken into account, anticipated profit in the shape of appreciated value of the closing stock is not brought into account, as no prudent trader would care to show increased profit before its actual realisation.	None
This is the theory underlying the rule that the closing stock is to be valued at cost or market price whichever is the lower, and it is now generally accepted as an established rule of commercial practice and accountancy.	None
From the above passage, it will be seen that the proper practice is to value the closing stock at cost.	None
That will eliminate entries relating to the same stock from both sides of the account.	None
To this rule, custom recognises only one exception and that is to value the stock at market value if that is lower.	None
But on no principle can one justify the valuation of the closing stock at a market value higher than cost as that will result in the taxation of notional profits the assessee has not realised.	None
The High Court in G. R. Ramachari and Co. 1961 (41) ITR 142 (Mad) has, however, outlined another exception and seems to have rested this on two considerations.	None
The first is the observation of Lord Buckmaster in CIT v.	None
Ahmedabad New Cotton Mills Co. Ltd.	None
1930 LR 57 IA 21 1930 AIR(PC) 56 to the following effect (p. 147 of 41 ITR)	None
The method of introducing stock into each side of a profit and loss account for the purpose of determining the annual profits is a method well understood in commercial circles and does not necessarily depend upon exact trade valuations being given to each article of stock that is so introduced.	None
The one thing that is essential is that there should be a definite method of valuation adopted which should be carried through from year to year, so that in case of any deviation from strict market values in the entry of the stock at the close of one year it will be rectified by the accounts in the next year.	None
From these observations, the High Court inferred (at p. 147 of 41 ITR) It is obvious from the above that the privilege of valuing the opening and closing stocks in a consistent manner is available only to continuing business and that it cannot be adopted where the business comes to an end and the stockintrade has to be disposed of in order to determine the exact position of the business on the date of closure.	None
The, second consideration which prevailed with the High Court is reflected in the following passage from the judgment (at p. 149 of 41 ITR) It seems to us that none of these cases has any application to the facts of the present case.	None
There is no authority directly in point dealing with this question, where a partnership concern dissolves its business in the course of the accounting year, what is the basis on which the stockintrade has to be valued as on the date of dissolution.	None
We have accordingly to deal with the matter on first principles The case of a firm which goes into liquidation forms a close parallel to the present case.	None
In such a case all the stockintrade and other assets of the business will have to be sold and their value realised.	None
It cannot be controverted that it is only by doing so that the true state of the profits or losses of the business can be arrived at.	None
The position is not very different when the partnership ceases to exist in the course of the accounting year.	None
The fact that Ramachari, one of the expartners, took over the entire stock and continued to run the business on his own, is not relevant at all, when we consider the profits or losses of the partnership which has come to an end.	None
It should, therefore, follow that in order to arrive at the correct picture of the trading results of the partnership on the date when it ceases to function, the valuation of the stock in hand should be made on the basis of the prevailing market price.	None
We are not quite sure that the first of the considerations that prevailed with the High Court is relevant in the present case.	None
Even in a continuing business, the valuation at market value is permissible only when it is less than cost it is not quite certain whether the rules permit an assessee if he so desires to value closing stock at market value where it is higher than cost.	Reasoning
But, in either event, it is allowed to be done because its effect can be offset over a period of time.	Reasoning
But here, where the business comes to a close, no future adjustment of an over or Under valuation is possible.	None
In this context, it is difficult to see how valuation, at other than cost, can be justified on the principle of Ahmedabad New Cotton Mills case 1930 LR 57 IA 21 (PC) 1930 AIR(PC)	None
56We, however, find substance in the second consideration that prevailed with the High Court.	None
The decision in Muhammad Ussain Sahib v. S. N. Abdul Gaffoor Sahib, 1950 AIR(Mad) 758 1950 (1) MLJ 81 correctly sets out the mode of taking accounts regarding the assets of a firm.	None
While the valuation of assets during the subsistence of the partnership would be immaterial and could even be notional, the position at the point of dissolution is totally different (at p. 759)	None
But the situation is totally different when the firm is dissolved or when a partner retires.	None
The settlement of his account must be not on notional basis but on a real basis, that is every asset of the partnership should be converted into money and the account of each partner settled on that basis The assets have to be valued, of course, on the basis of the market value on the date of the dissolution This applies equally well to assets which constitute stockintrade.	None
There can be no manner of doubt that, in taking accounts for purposes of dissolution, the firm and the partners, being commercial men, would value the assets only on a real basis and not at cost or at their other value appearing in the books.	None
A short passage from Pickles on Accountancy (Third Edn.), p. 650, will make this clear In the event of the accounts being drawn up to the date of death or retirement, no departure from the normal procedure arises, but it will be necessary to see that every revaluation required by the terms of the partnership agreement is made.	None
It has been laid down judicially that, in the absence of contrary agreement, all assets and liabilities must be taken at fair value not merely a book value basis, thus involving recording entries for both appreciation and depreciation of assets and liabilities.	None
This rule is applicable, not withstanding the omission of a particular item from the books, e.g., investments, goodwill (Cruikshank v. Sutherland 1922 (92) LJ(Ch) 136 (HL)).	None
Obviously, the net effect of the revaluation will be profit or loss divisible in the agreed profit or losssharing ratios.	None
The real rights of the partners cannot be mutually adjusted on any other basis.	None
This is what happened in G. R. Ramachari and Co. 1961 (41) ITR 142 (Mad) .	Reasoning
Indeed, this is exactly what the partners in this case have done and, having done so, it is untenable for there to contend that the valuation should be on some other basis.	Reasoning
Once this principle is applied and the stockintrade is valued at market price, the surplus, if any, has to get reflected as the profits of the firm and has to be charged to tax.	Reasoning
The view taken by the High Court has held the field for about thirty years now and we see no reason to disagree even if a different view were possible.	Reasoning
For these reasons, we agree with the answer given by the High Court to the second question as well The appeal fails and is dismissed.	Reasoning
But we would make no order regarding costsAppeal dismissed.	Decision
