 FAZAL ALI, J.1.	None
These are appeals by the Revenue by special leave against the order of the High Court of Punjab Haryana dated January 20, 1970 answering the questions referred to the High Court by the Tribunal in favour of the assessees respondents and against the Revenue.	None
The appeal arises in the following circumstances.2.	None
M s. Panipat Woollen General M ills Co. Ltd.hereafter referred to as the assessee Company had two Departments (1) for spinning of yarn from raw and waste wool and (2) for spinning of yarn from imported wool tops.	Facts
The second Department which carried on the operations of spinning of yarn from imported wool tops was started some time in the year 1952.	Facts
Weaving operations were, how ever carried on in both these Departments.	Facts
One of the Departments was known as M s. PaniPat Woollen Mills, Kharar while the other one was known as M s. Navin Woollen Mills.	Facts
It is said that the assessee Company was running at a constant loss as a result of which in 1952 the assessee Company decided to instal a plant for manufacture of worsted yarn from imported wool tops by raising a loan of Rs. 7 lakhs from the Industrial Finance Corporation.	Facts
The plant went into production in September 1952.	Facts
The assessee Company appointed M s. Murlidhar Chiranjilal as the sole selling agents for the worsted yarn on payment of 2 commission.	Facts
Subsequently on December 15, 1953 the assessee Company entered into an agreement with Mis Saligram Premnath under which the latter were appointed as the sole selling agents on certain specified conditions, the important of which being that the agents were to finance the assessee Company to the extent of Rs. 2, 50, 000/ and the assessee Company agreed to pay 6 interest on the advances to be made by the agents and further agreed to pay 2 commission on the net proceeds of sales of goods in India.	Facts
Before expiry of this agreement, another agreement was entered into by the assessee Company with the agents on October 20, 1955 under which the agents were to get 6 interest on all the advances made by them, 1 commission on net sales and 50 commission on net sales of the worsted plant.	Facts
What is more was that the agents agreed to a deduction of 50 of the loss incurred by the assessee Company from their remuneration.	Facts
There were a number of other conditions with which we shall deal later.	Facts
The selling agents M s. Saligram Premnath advanced a sum of Rs. 6, 26, 847/ and Rs. 8, 71, 873/ and received Rs. 37, 157/ and Rs. 73, 787/ as 50 commission on the net profits of the worsted plant in the co urse of two years, namely, assessment years 19557 ending on March 31, 1956 and 195758 ending on March, 31, 1957.	Facts
The assessee Company accordingly in its return for the year 195657 claimed the amount of Rs. 37, 157/ and Rs. 73, 787/ for the a ssessment year 195758 as a deduction under the provisions of s. 10(2) (xv) of the Incometax Act, 1922.	Facts
The case of the assessee was that the two amounts mentioned above being in the nature of commission paid to the selling agents woul d be deemed expenses incurred by the Company in order to earn profits and would, therefore, fall within the ambit of s. 10(2) (xv) of the Incometax Act, 1922hereafter referred to as the Act.	Facts
The Incometax officer, however, disallowed th e deduction and held that the deduction claimed was actually a division of profits after the profits had come into existence and had been ascertained, and therefore could not he claimed as a valid deduction under the provisions of the Act.	Facts
The assessee Company went up in appeal to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner who accepted the plea of the assessee Company and held that the payment was a permissible deduction as it was incurred for the purpose of the assessees trade in order to facilitate the business of the assessee.	Facts
The Revenue then went up in appeal before the Tribunal which after considering the facts and the law on the subject upheld the contention of the Revenue and held that the sums in question were not legal deductions as contemplated under s. 10(2)(xv) of the Act but amounted to application of profits after they were earned.	Facts
The Tribunal further held that the agreement dated October 20, 1955 amounted to a joint venture for the distribution of profit, between the assessee Company and the selling agents after the profits were ascertained.	Facts
The assessee Company then approached the Tribunal for making a reference to the High Court and the Tribunal accordingly referred the following two questions to the High Court for its opinion1.	None
Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal rightly held that the sums of Rs. 37, 157/ and Rs. 73, 787/ were chargeable to tax in the hands of the assessee Company in the assessment years 195657 and 195758 respectively?2.	Facts
Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal rightly disallowed the assessee Companys claim for deduction of the payment of Rs. 37, 157/ and Rs. 73, 787/, under sec. 10(l) and Sec. 10(2)(xv) of the Incometax Act, 1922, in the assessment years 1956 57 and 195758 respectively?.The High Court by its judgment dated January 20, 1 970, answered both the questions in favour of the assessee Company and held that the payments in question amounted to a legitimate deduction under i. 10(2)(xv) of the Act, and the Tribunal was wrong in disallowing the same.	Facts
Thereafter the appellant moved the High Court for grant of leave to appeal to the Supreme Court which having been rejected the appellant filed a petition for special leave.	Facts
The special leave having been granted, the appeal is now before us.	Facts
The High Court in reversing the order of the Tribunal mainly relied on what it described as the surrounding circumstances under which the alleged payments were made to the selling agents by the assessee Company as spelt out from the agreement entered into by the a ssessee Company with the selling agents.	Facts
The main point which was argued before the Tribunal as also before the High Court was that the cumulative effect of the interpretation of the various clauses of the agreement dated October 20, 1955 unmistakably revealed that in the garb of an agency the parties entered into a joint venture for distributing the net profits, after being ascertained between themselves and that is why there was an express provision in the agreement by which the agents agreed to share the losses to the extent of 50 which were to be deducted from the remuneration payable to the agents.	Facts
The Tribunal held that the agreement amounted to a joint venture resulting in division of net profits and therefore t he amount paid to the agents could not be claimed by the assessee Company as a deduction under s. 10(2)(xv) of the Act, as it was not incurred for the purpose of the business or for earning profits.	Facts
The High Court held that the mere fact that the agents agreed to share the profits and the losses would not take the case of the assessee beyond the ambit of s. 10(2)(xv) of the Act in order to show that the payments made to the agents were not expenses incurred for the purpose of the business.	Facts
The High Court laid special emphasis on the fact that the Revenue could not examine the question of the commercial expediency of the businessman to incur expenses or earn profits in a particular manner.	Facts
The High Court accordingly found that the agreement per se was a contract of agency and not a joint venture and accordingly the High Court accepted the plea of the assessee Company.	Facts
In support of the appeal Mr. Ahuja, the learned standing counsel for the Revenue submitted the following two points before us (1) In the first place it was submitted that there being an express provision in the agreement dated October 20, 1955 by which the agents agreed to share losses which was a provision peculiar to the present transaction and was not at all covered by any authority cited before the Tribunal or the High Court, that itself was proof positive of the fact that the transaction amounted to a joint venture with a view to division of profits and(2)	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the High Court had exceeded its jurisdiction in traveling beyond the agreed statement of the case framed by the Tribunal and had relied on certain materials which were not at all found by the Tribunal in its order nor were those materials mentioned in the statement of the case.3.	None
Mr. A. N. Goyal counsel for the assessee Company has, however.	Arguments of Respondent
submitted that the view taken by the High Court is absolutely correct and the facts of the present case are clearly covered by the decision of this Court in Dharamvir Dhir v. Commissioner of Incometax Bihar Orissa (42 I.T.R.7.).	Arguments of Respondent
A number of other cases have also been cited at the Bar and we shall refer to the same after marshalling the facts found in the present case.4.	Arguments of Respondent
Before coming to the facts it may be necessary to mention that there can be no dispute with respect to the two important propositions(1) that in order to fall within s. 10(2)(xv) of the Act the deduction claimed must amount to an expenditure which was laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the business, profession or vocation.	None
This will naturally depend upon the facts of each case.(2) that in order to determine the question of reasonableness of the expenditure, the test of commercial expediency would have to be adjudged from the point of view of the businessman and not of the Incometax Department.	None
With this preface we now proceed to deal with the facts of the present case on the basis of which the questions of law referred to the High Court and answered in favour of the assessee Company arise.	None
To begin with, it is conceded by the learned standing counsel for the Revenue that the assessee Company was running at a loss as a result of which it had to raise a lorn of several lakhs of rupees from.	None
the Industrial Finance Corporation.	None
It was perhaps for this reason that the assessee Company entered into an agreement with the new selling agents M s Saligram Premnath who were prepared to.	None
give to the assessee Company better and more profitable terms.	None
The main question to be determined is as to whether or not the agreement dated October 20, 1955 read as a whole amounts to a joint venture for the purpose of division of profits.	None
In order to decide this question it may be necessary to refer to some important portions of the second agreement which alone is relevant for the purpose of deciding this point.	None
We might mention, however, that so far as the first agreement is concerned the terms thereof do not make out a case of joint venture but appear to be in consonance with the agreement being one of an agency simpliciter.	None
It is the second agreement that in our opinion appears to change the entire complexion of the case.	None
This agreement is set out at p. 17 of the Paper Book and consists of ten main clauses.	None
The agreement was to enure for a period of two years to commence from January 1, 1956 or the date on which manufacturing actually starts under the agreement whichever is later.	None
This is provided in clause 2 of the agreement.	None
It was further provided that the period of the agency could be extended further by mutual consent.	None
Clause 3(ii) runs thusProgram for the manufacture of goods will be made from time to time	None
b y the Company in consultation and with the consent of the Agents.	None
It may be noticed that this clause requires not only consultation with the agents for the programme of manufacture of goods but a tacit consent of the agents.	None
In other words, if the agents withheld their consent, they could veto the programme of manufacture.	None
Such a limitation placed on the power of the assessee Company does not appear to us to be in consonance with a pure and simple contract of agency.	None
Clause 6 which deals with financial arrangements may be extracted thus(i) The Agents shall invest full amount for the working of the Worsted Plant to the full possible capacity beginning from the purchase of tops to the completion of the yarn sales including wages, power, stores, and repairs and maintenance etc.	None
Such investments and expenses incurred on tops, manufacturing, bank charges, transport, insurance and octroi will be debited to the account of the Company.(ii) Before the beginning of the arrangements under this Agreement, the Machinery of the Worsted Plant will be overhauled and similarly before this arrangement ends the Machinery will be overhauled.x x	None
x x x(viii)	None
In case of any loss or damage to the tops or goods in transit or in godowns, the same will be debited to the account of the Worsted Plant.(ix)	None
The accounts of the Worsted Plant will be maintained separately in an office situated near the Worsted Plant and the Agents will have free access to the account books.x	None
x x x xSubclause (i) clearly contemplates that the agents would have to make full and complete investment for the working of the worsted plant to the fullest possible capacity including wages, power, stores, repairs and maintenance etc.	None
This provision appears to be more in consonance with the terms of a person who is a partner in a venture rather than one who is a mere agent.	None
Further more, subclause (ii) provides that before the agreement starts the machinery of the worsted plant would be overhauled and would be again overhauled before the agreement ends.	None
This provision also has its own importance and appears to be beyond the role of the selling agents simpliciter.	None
Subclauses (viii) and (ix) extracted above clearly show that the damage to the tops or goods in transit would have to be debited to the account of the worsted plant and such accounts would have to be maintained separately.	None
The obvious object is that the agents should be in a position to ascertain tile net profits and control the working of the worsted plant.	None
Clause 7 is the most important clause of this agreement, which, in our opinion, clearly shows that the agreement in essence and in purport is a sort of a partnership or a joint venture rather than a contract of agency.	None
Subclause (i) of clause 7 p runs thus7.	None
Commission(i )	None
The Agents shall be allowed a commission at 1 1/4 (one and a quarter per cent) on the net proceeds of sales of all goods.	None
Such commission shall be chargeable upon money actually credited to the Company, and not on out standing debts, if any.	None
Besides, Agents will get 50 (fifty per cent) commission on the net profits of the Worsted Plant.	Reasoning
The net profits will be ascertained after deducting all the manufacturing expenses, interest, insurance, depreciation and selling commission etc.	Reasoning
For allowing annual depreciation in the value of the machinery and buildings and interest on the value of machinery, buildings and commencing from the date on which manufacturing actually starts under this Agreement, a lump sum of Rs. 50, 000/ has been agreed to be deducted for determining the net profits or loss position.	None
In case of net loss, if any, there will be a deduction of 50 (fifty per cent) of such loss from the Agents Account.5.	None
Analysing the terms of this subclause it would appear that the agents have been able to secure most liberal and profitable terms.	Reasoning
To begin with they were to get a commission at the rate of one and a quarter per cent on the net proceeds of sales of all goods There can be no objection to this.	Reasoning
Secondly, the agents will get 50 commission on the net profits of the worsted plant.	Reasoning
The net profits would have to be ascertained after deducing all the manufacturing costs, interest, insurance etc.	Reasoning
The conduct of the agents in sharing half of the net profits does not appear to us to be consistent with the payments made to the agents for services rendered.	Reasoning
It is difficult to lay down any rule of universal application as to what percentage of profit would be consistent with the payment in lieu of services but taking the totality of the provisions of the agreement it seems to us that the percentage of profits and the manner in which it is to be determined is more consistent with the position of a partner than that of an Agent.	Reasoning
Finally the provision for sharing the loss incurred by the Company and for a lump sum deduction of Rs. 50, 000/ is totally inconsistent with a contract of agency .	Reasoning
Further more, subclause (iv) of clause 7 provides as under(iv)	None
The commission account will be maintained separately by the Agents and the commission will be payable to the Agents by the Company every six months.	None
In the same way, the amount of Rs. 25, 000/ for six months as provided in subclause (i) above, will be paid to the Company every halfyear within ten days.	None
The profit and loss account of the Worsted Plant will be made every six months within ten days and the adjustments will be made accordingly by actual payments, as the case may be, within ten days.6.	None
The above subclause clearly provides for a separate commission ac count to be maintained by the agents and the commission to be paid every six months.	None
Consequently the agents agreed to pay a sum of Rs. 25, 000/ for six months every half year within ten days.	Reasoning
We might further mention here that the provision in the agreement regarding s haring of the loss is absolutely peculiar to this particular agreement and there is not a single authority, which has, in spite of such a provision, held that the transaction does not amount to a joint venture or a division of profits.	Reasoning
The provision regarding the consent of the agents to the sales and the programme of manufacture is also pertinent in order to determine whether the transaction amountted to a joint venture in the garb of a contract of agency.	Reasoning
It is well settled that the Court in order to construe an agreement has to look to the substance or the essence of it rather than to its form.	Reasoning
A party cannot escape the consequences of law merely by describing an agreement in a particular form though in essence and in substance IT H may be a different transaction.	Reasoning
In these circumstances, therefore, if we construe the agreement as a sort of a joint venture or a transaction like a partnership which has been given the form and appearance of a contract of agency , the law must have its course.	None
Our attention has been drawn by the learned counsel for the Re venue to a decision in British Sugar Manufacturers Ltd. v. Harris (Inspector of Taxes)(7 I.T.R.101.), where Greene, M. R. clearly observed that where a person contributes to some sort of joint adventure which ultimately results in division of profits, it could not be construed as.	None
a remuneration for services.	None
In this connection, Greene, M. R. Ob served as followsIt is not cash that passes in exchange for these profits, it is services and the badge of such a contract is remuneration for services, and therefore the first thing that this remuneration would certainly not be is a share of profits purchased by the employee.	None
x x x I can conceive of a case where a person contributes to some sort of joint adventure services, while others contribute perhaps capital, land, plant, and goods, arranging between themselves (it may be something short of a partnership) that nobody shall get anything until the pool of profits is ascertained, and then they shall divide it up between them in specified proportions.	None
That, it seems to me would be a real agreement for division of profits, because there would be D one profit fund only.	None
There would not be two profit funds to be ascertained for different purposes.7.	None
These observations seem to us to cover the facts of the instant case.	None
Having regard to the terms and conditions of the agreement detailed and analysed above, there can be no doubt that the agents by contributing to the investments and by sharing the profits as also the E. losses have actually contributed to a joint venture and ultimate division of the profits with the principals and the agreement must be construed as an agreement for division of the profits in specified pro portions as mentioned therein.	None
It is true that in the aforesaid case on the facts found the Court held that the transaction did not amount to a joint venture but it was clearly pointed out in the judgment that there is a very thin line of distinction between a contract for payment of a share of profits simpliciter and a payment of remuneration which is deductible in truth from the profits divisible.	None
We, therefore, find ourselves in complete agreement with the observations made by Greene, M. R., which aptly apply to the facts of the present case on the basis of the various clauses of the agreement dated October 20, 1955.	None
The High Court, however, appears to have relied upon the decision in Dharamvir Dhirs case (supra).	None
The facts of that case appear to be clearly distinguishable from those of the present case.	None
What had happened in Dharamvir Dhirs case was that the assessee was an employee of the firm earning a particular salary.	None
The employee entered into a coal raising contract with a coal company and as he did not have the necessary funds he persuaded a public charitable trust to advance to him sums upto 1 1/2 lakhs on payment of interest at 6 per cent.	None
and share 11/16ths of the profits of the business.	None
The assessee agreed that the coal raising contract would be carried on in accordance with the policy settled between him and the trust and the trust could withdraw its money at any time.	None
It is, there fore, clear that in the first place the agent, namely, the trust, agreed to finance the assessee by giving him a loan of Rs. 1 1/2 lakhs at 6 percent interest.	None
This was undoubtedly permissible.	None
The trust was also b to get 11/16th of the profits of the business.	None
It was, however, not agreed between the parties that the profits would be ascertained after . .	None
deducting the net expenses as mentioned in the agreement before us.	None
It is true that the contract was to be carried on in accordance with the policy settled between the assessee and the trust but that did not give any veto power to the trust to tarpedo the contract.	None
In the instant case the agreement clearly provided for the consent of the agents not only at the beginning of the manufacture of the yarn by the plant to be installed by the assessee Company but at every stage in t he programme of manufacture.	None
Even at the stage of the sale of the products the consent of the agents was necessary.	None
In other words the agents were given a complete controlling power so far as the manufacture and sale of the products of the asses see Company were concerned.	None
No such stipulation is to be found in Dharamvir Dhirs case (supra).	None
Finally, not only there was no provision in Dharamvir Dhirs case under which the trust was to share the losses but there was an ex press provision to the contrary, namely, that the trust was not liable for any loss.	None
Thus the mere payment of interest at the rate of 6 per cent.	None
On the loan advanced to the assessee and a percentage in the profits of the business would be quite consistent with a remunerati on in lieu of services lent and would certainly amount to an expenditure incurred by the assessee wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the business which was conducted by the assessee.	None
The same, however, cannot be said of the present case.	None
It was on the peculiar facts of the Dharamvir Dhirs case that this Court observed as followson the facts proved in the present case the trust agreed to finance the business of the appellant on the terms set out in the agreement and there is nothing to show that he could have made any better arrangements or would not have last the contract if he had failed to enter into the agreement, i.e. the agreement to pay the amounts in dispute.	None
There fore, in a commercial sense, the payments were an expenditure wholly and exclusively laid out for the purpose of the business.8.	None
It may be mentioned that this Court had considered the decision in the British Sugar Manufactures Ltd.s case (supra) an d had approved of the same.	None
Great stress was laid by counsel for the assessee Company on the fact that this Court could not go behind the commercial expediency which had to be determined from the point of view of a businessman.	None
Even so w hatever be the commercial considerations, it is difficult to hold that the commercial expediency dictated the assessee Company to allow itself to be completely overshadowed by its selling agents so as to pay them not only for the services rendered but also allow them to share profits, control the manufacture of the goods and the programme thereof and also to share the losses.	Reasoning
The test of commercial expediency cannot be reduced in the shape of a ritualistic formula, nor can it be put in a watertight compartment so as to be confined in a strait jacket.	Reasoning
The test merely means that the Court will place itself in the position of a businessman and find out whether the expenses incurred could be said to have been laid out for the purpose of the business or the transaction was merely a subterfuge for the purpose of sharing or dividing the profits ascertained in a particular manner.	Reasoning
It seems to us that in ultimate analysis the matter would .	Reasoning
depend on the intention of the parties as spelt out from the terms of  the agreement or the surrounding circumstances, the nature or character of the trade or venture, the purpose for which the expenses are incurred and the object which is sought to be achieved for incurring those expenses.	Reasoning
If the expenses incurred amount to a profit of an enduring nature they may be treated as capital expenditure, whereas if the expenses merely serve to promote or increase the commercial activity they may amount to an expenditure which is incurred for the purpose of the business.	None
Reliance was also placed by counsel for the assessee Company on the decision in J. K. Woollen Manufacturers v. Commissioner of Income Tax, U.P.(1969 1.	Arguments of Respondent
S. C. R. 525), where this Court observed as followsThe question as to whether an amount claimed as expenditure was laid out or expended wholly or exclusively for the purpose of business, profession or vocation as required under Section 10(2) (xv) of the Income Ta x Act .	None
has to be decided on the facts and in the light of the circumstances of each particular case.	None
x x x x In our opinion, neither the High Court nor the Appellate Tribunal has applied the proper legal test in this case.	None
As pointed out by this Court in C.I.T. Bombay v. Walchand and Co. Private Ltd., 196765 ITR 381 (AIR 1967 SC 1435 ) in applying the test of commercial expediency for determining whether an expenditure was wholly and exclusively laid out for the purpose of the business, reasonableness of the expenditure has to be adjudged from the point of r view of the businessman and not of the Income Tax Department.	None
It is, of course, open to the Appellate Tribunal to come to a conclusion either that the alleged payment is not real or that it is not incurred by the assessee in the character of trader or it is not laid out wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the business of the assessee and to disallow it.	None
But it is not the function of the Tribunal to determine the remuneration which in their view should be paid to an employee of the assessee.	None
It would appear that in the aforesaid case the only question was regarding the quantum of remuneration to be given to the General , Manager and this Court observed that the businessman must be given complete freedom to fix the terms of his employees after taking an overall view of the situation.	None
This was not at all a case where an agreement like the present one was entered into between the assessee Company and its agents.	None
On the other hand in Commissioner of Incometax, Kerala v. Travancore Sugars and Chemicals Ltd.(881.T.R.1, 10.), this Court added a word of caution that the test of commercial expediency should not be applied in a mechanical manner and observed as followsIn considering the nature of the expenditure incurred in the discharge of an obligation under a contract or a statute or a decree or some similar binding covenant, one must avoid r being caught in the maze of judicial decisions rendered on different facts and which always pre sent distinguishing features for a comparison with the facts and circumstances of the case in hand.	None
Nor would it be conducive for clarity or for reaching a logical result if we were to concentrate on the facts of the decided cases with a view to match the colour of that case with that of the case which requires determination.	None
The surer way of arriving at a just conclusion would be to first ascertain by reference to the document under which the obligation for incurring the expenditure is created and thereafter to apply the principle embalmed in the decisions of those facts.	None
Judicial statements on the facts of a particular case can never assist courts in the construction , of an agreement or a statute which was not considered in i those judgments or to ascertain what the intention of the legislature was.	None
What we must look at is the contract or the statute or the decree, in relation to its terms, the obligation imposed and the purpose for which the transaction was , entered into.9.	None
The learned counsel for the assessee Company relied on the aforesaid case because the question whether the transaction amounted to a joint venture appears to have been raised but it appears that this point had been given up when the case was sent on remand and was therefore not decided.	None
In these circumstances, the decision in the aforesaid case does not appear to be of any assistance to the assessee Company.10.	None
The Tribunal had interpreted the agreement keeping into account J the tests of commercial expediency and we find ourselves in complete agreement with the view taken by the Tribunal.	None
The High Court on the other hand relied upon what it called the surrounding circumstances that the assessee Company was a losing concern from its inception and had to get rid of the previous selling agents M s Murlidhar Chiranjilal because they caused considerable embarrassment to the assessee Company.	None
While the standing counsel for the Revenue has admitted that the Company was running at some loss there was no evidence that the Company was in such a bad shape that it had to get rid of the first selling agents because the selling agents were l causing embarrassment to it.	None
The High Court then relied on the fact that the first agency which was entered into with M s Murlidhar Chiranjilal in 1953 also resulted in loss as a result of which the A second agreement dated October 20, 1955 was entered into.	None
This does not appear to be of much consequence.	None
The High Court then relied on the fact that the agents had no other connection with the assessee Company except that of the business connection.	None
The High Court further found that the promoter of the assessee Company Mr. Desh Bandhu Gupta had a stature which enabled him to borrow loans from the Banks on personal security and as he died in an air crash the credit of the Company went down and it was not able to raise money from the Banks.	None
There is absolutely no warrant for these facts referred to by the High Court which are neither mentioned in the agreed statement of the case submitted by the Tribunal to the High Court nor in the order of the Tribunal.	None
It is well settled that the High Court is not entitled to go behind the statement of the case.	None
In Commissioner of Incometax, Poona v. Manna Ramji and Company(86I.T.R.29, 37.)	None
this Court observed as followsIn this respect we are of the view that the Tribunal is the final fact Finding authority.	None
It is for the Tribunal to find facts and it is for the High Court and this Court to lay down the law applicable to the facts found .	None
Neither the High Court nor this Court has jurisdiction to go behind or to question the statement of facts made by the Tribunal.	None
The statement of case is binding on the parties and they are Dot entitled to go behind the facts of the Tribunal in the statement.	None
When the question referred to the High Court speaks of on the facts and circumstances of the case, it means on the facts and circumstances found by the Tribunal and not on the facts and circumstance s as may be found by the High Court.11.	None
In Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay v. Poona Electric Supply Co. Ltd.(49 I.T.R.913 924.)	None
the Bombay High Court observed as followsIt is true that the Electricity act exercises control on the business of the licensee, but the control that is exercised by reason of the aforesaid proviso is to compel the assessee to distribute part of its clear profits if it is found that clear profits are in excess of the reason able return as contemplated under the Act.	None
That, in our opinion, would only amount to apportionment or distribution of the profits after they have been earned.	None
It cannot, therefore, be said that the amount set apart for t he purpose of distribution amongst the consumers is not chargeable to tax on the ground that it represents overcharge.	None
This case however was decided on its own facts and has no application to the facts in the instant case.	None
Reliance was also placed by counsel for the assessee Company on a Division Bench decision of the Patna High Court in Jamshedpur Motor Accessories Stores v. Commissioner of Incometax, Bihar Orissa(95 I.T.R.664, 672.) where Untwalia, C.J., as he then was, observed as followsThat position being accepted the matter as to what amount was payable to Parikh ought to have been adjudged from the assessees point of view and not from the department or Tribunals point of view.	None
It has to he emphasised that unless there is, a limitation put by the law on the amount , of expenditure a lesser amount than the amount expended cannot be allowed merely because the assessing authority c thinks that the assessee could have managed by paying a lesser amount as a prudent businessman.  	None
The test of prudence by substituting its own view in place of the business mans h as not been approved by the Supreme Court in the decisions referred to above.	None
Here also the observations were confined only to the question that the test of prudence was to be determined from the point of view of the businessman.	None
Jamshedpur Motor Accessrories Stores case(supra) was also concerned regarding the quantum of the payment of com mission and does not appear to be useful in deciding the point at in the present case.12.	None
Some other decisions were cited at the Bar but they have no bearing on the issue and it is not necessary for us to refer to them.	None
What is, therefore, important to us is that no decision has been cited before us which takes the view that even though under the contract of agency the selling agents who agreed to make substantial investments in the assessee Company and got interest on the loans apart from the commission they also shared profit to the extent of 50 as also loss to that extent and had complete controlling power in t he manufacturing programme or the sale of the products and yet the transaction would be one of agency simpliciter and not a joint Venture.	Reasoning
On the facts found by the Tribunal and those mentioned in the statement of the case as discussed above leads to the inescapable conclusion that the present contract of agency really amounts to a transaction by which substantial investments had been made by the selling agents with a. view to control the manufacturing programme and the a gents had also agreed to share the profits and losses equally.	Reasoning
This is, therefore, nothing, but a joint venture to divide the profits after the same are ascertained and cannot in any sense be deemed to be expenses incurred by the assessee Company for t he purpose of its business or for that matter for earning profits.	None
In fact in Pondicherry Railway Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax, Madras(A.I.R.1931 P.C. 165, 170.), Lord Macmillan pointed out that a payment made to of profits and conditional on profits being earned cannot be legitimately described as a payment made to earn profits.	None
It assumes that profits have first come into existence.	None
But profits on their coming into existence attract tax at that point and the Revenue is not concerned with the subsequent application of the profits In this connection the Privy Council observed as follows.	None
It is claimed for the company that when it makes over to the Colonial Government their half of the net profits it is making an expenditure incurred solely for the purpose of earning its own profits.	None
The Court below has unanimously negatived this contention and in their Lordships opinion has rightly done so.	None
A payment out of profits and conditional on profits being, earned cannot accurately be described as a payment made to earn profits.	None
It assumes that profits have first come into existence.	None
But profits on their coming into existence attract tax at that point and the revenue is not concerned with the subsequent application of the profits.	None
But the principle laid down by Lord Chancellor Halsbury in Gresham Life Assurance Society v. Styles (1892) A.C. 309at p. 315, is of general application unaffected by the specialities of the English tax systemBut	None
when once an individual or a company has in that proper sense ascertained what a re the profits of his business or his trade, the destination of those profits or the charge which has been made on those profits by previous agreement or otherwise is perfectly immaterial.	None
The tax is payable upon the profits realised and the meaning to my mind is rendered plain by the words payable out of profits.	None
Thus in short by controlling the manufacturing programme, sharing to the extent of 50 in the net profits ascertained in the manner stipulated in the agreement and above all for sharing 50 of the losses which are to be deducted from the commission of the agents the agents become completely equated with the proprietors of the firm itself and therefore the contract of agency is really a sort of a partner ship and has been given the cloak and colour of an agency to conceal the real intent and purpose the commercial venture.	Reasoning
In view of the decisions referred to above and the peculiar facts of the present case we are satisfied that the view taken by the Tribunal that the payments in question were not legally deductible under s. 10(2)(xv) of the Act was correct.	Reasoning
The view taken by the High Court that the amounts in question were deductible under s. 10(2) (xv) appears to be legally erroneous cannot be upheld.13.	Reasoning
For the reasons given above, the appeals are allowed and the judgment of the High Court is set aside and that of the Tribunal is restored and the two questions referred to the High Court are answer ed against the assessee Company and in favour of the Revenue.	Decision
In view of the peculiar acts of the present case, we leave the parties to bear their own costs in this Court.14.	Decision
Appeals allowed.	None
