 Mudholkar, J.1.	None
A matter of farreaching importance affecting the freedom of the press is raised in these three petitions wherein the constitutionality of the Newspaper (Price and Page) Act, 1956, and the Daily Newspaper (Price and Page) Order, 1960, is questioned.2.	None
The first petition is by a private limited company carrying on business inter alia of publishing daily and weekly newspapers in Marathi named Sakal from Poona and by two persons who are the only shareholders in that company.	Facts
The second and third petitions are preferred by two readers of Sakal who also challenge the constitutionality of the Act.	Facts
Certain parties were allowed to intervene.	Facts
They supported the Union of India, the respondent in all these petitions and sought to uphold the validity of the Act and the Order.	Facts
In view of the common argument adduced before us it would be convenient to deal with the first petition only in full.3.	Facts
The newspaper Sakal was started in the year 1932 and it is claimed that it has a net circulation of 52,000 copies on week days and 56,000 copies on Sundays in Maharashtra and Karnataka and as such plays a leading part in the dissemination of news and views and in moulding public opinion in matters of public interest.4.	Facts
The daily edition of the newspaper contains six pages a day for five days in a week and four pages on one day.	Facts
This edition is priced at 7 nP. The Sunday edition consists of ten pages and is priced at 12np.	Facts
About 40 per cent of the space in the newspaper is taken up by advertisement matter and the rest is devoted to news, articles, features, views etc.	Facts
It is claimed on behalf of the petitioners that one of the special features of the newspaper is coverage of foreign news and despatches on foreign affairs.	Facts
It is claimed on behalf of the petitioners that this paper is not aligned with any political party and that upon controversial questions the public look up to it for impartial appraisement of the issues involved and for guidance.5.	Facts
Briefly stated the effect of the Act and of the impugned Order is to regulate the number of pages according to the price charged, prescribe the number of supplements to be published and prohibit the publication and sale of newspapers in contravention of any Order made under Section 3 of the Act.	Facts
The Act also provides for regulating by an Order under S. 3, the sizes and area of advertising matter in relation to the other matters contained in newspaper.	Facts
Penalties are also prescribed for contravention of the provision of the Act or Order.6.	Facts
We may mention here that in the year 1952 the Government of India appointed a Press Commission for enquiring into a large number of matters concerning the Press and one of the recommendations of the Commission was to enact a law such as the one impugned before us.	Facts
This law is alleged by, the respondent to have been made to give effect to that recommendation, Both the sides place reliance upon the findings of the Press Commission and have invited us to accept these findings, though not necessarily the recommendations.7.	Facts
The petitioners point out that the total number of pages which Sakal gives to its reading public on six days in a week is 34 and that, as a result of the impugned Order they will either have to raise its price from 7 nP. to 8 nP. per day or to reduce the total number of pages to 24.	Arguments of Petitioner
They further point out that while at present all newspapers can issue any number of supplements as and when they choose, under the Order they would be prevented from doing so except with the permission of the Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to them the Order would have the effect of either compelling them to increase the price or to reduce the number of pages of practically every newspaper in the country as also of preventing them from publishing supplements without extraneous restrictions which they are able to do at present.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is the petitioners case that the impugned Act and the impugned Order are pieces of legislation designed to curtail and which would in effect curtail the freedom of the press and as such are violative of the right guaranteed under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
19(1) (a) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
They point out that it they continue to give in their newspaper the same number of pages as at present, they would have to increase its selling price and that this will adversely affect its circulation.	Arguments of Petitioner
If, on the other hand, they reduce the number of pages in order to conform to the impugned order their right to disseminate news and views will be directly interfered with.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus in further event there will be an interference with their right under Art.19(1)(a) of the Constitution.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners point out that the impugned Order reserves to the Central Government the power to permit issue of supplements, except those on January 26 and August 15 and that the result of this would be to place them at the mercy of the Government and thus interfere with their freedom of expression.10.	Arguments of Petitioner
They further point out that the Act and the Order are violative of the provisions of Art.14 of the Constitution inasmuch as their avowed object is to promote arbitrarily the interests of some newspaper it the expense of others.	Arguments of Petitioner
They contend that inequality is writ large in the provisions of the Act and of the Order and that there is no reasonable classification or basis or any rational relationship between the restrictions imposed and the objects sought to be achieved.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to them, while the established newspapers will be hardly affected by, these provisions those that are endeavouring to come up will be hampered in their progress.11.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the respondent, the Union of India, in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, while it is admitted that the object of the Act is to regulate the prices charged for newspapers in relation to their pages, it is pointed out that this is being done to prevent unfair competition amongst newspapers as also to prevent the rise of monopolistic combines so that newspapers may have fair opportunities of freer discussion.	Arguments of Respondent
The effect of the provisions of the Act is said to be to provide for the maximum matter which a newspaper could make available to the public at a certain price and that this does not in any way restrict the rights of the petitioners to propagate their ideas.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent, while admitting that by the operation of the impugned Order a limitation is placed on the space which a newspaper would be able to devote to the propagation of its ideas and to news, says that it would be open to those newspapers to increase the space by raising the price.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the respondent the circulation of a newspaper will not be adversely affected by raising its price.	Arguments of Respondent
It is then contended that even if the circulation is adversely affected thereby the fundamental rights of the newspaper proprietors guaranteed by Art. 19(1)(a) of the Constitution will not be infringed.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also contended that the legislation in question does not directly, or indirectly deal with the subject of freedom of speech and expression and that consequently no question of the violation of the provisions of Art. 19(1)(a) at all arises.	Arguments of Respondent
The effect of the Act and the Order, according to the respondent, would be to promote further the right of newspapers in general to exercise the freedom of speech and expression.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, according to the respondent neither the intention nor the effect of the operation of the law is to take away or abridge the freedom of speech and expression of the petitioners.12.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further pointed out that all newspapers publish advertisements and that this is a trading activity.	Arguments of Respondent
It is, therefore necessary to differentiate between this activity and an activity which would fall under Art. 19(1)(a).	Arguments of Respondent
The impugned Act and the Order, according to the respondent provide in the public interest for restrictions on the trading activity of newspapers.	Arguments of Respondent
It is pointed out that the space allocated to advertisements by newspapers varies from 46 per cent to 59 per cent and that these advertisements bring in a substantial revenue which enables the newspapers to be sold at a price below the cost of production.	Arguments of Respondent
Placing reliance upon the statement contained in the Report of the Press Commission it is, contended on behalf of the respondent that newspapers of long standing which have built up a large and stable advertisement revenue being in a more advantageous position than newcomers in the field of journalism are in a position to squeeze out such newcomers with the result that they are able to destroy the freedom of expression of others.	Arguments of Respondent
A free press, it is said, cannot mean a press composed of an few powerful combines and that in order to ensure freedom of press it is necessary to secure full scope for the full development of smaller newspapers.13.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further pointed out on behalf of the respondent that the diminution of advertisement revenue which would result from the operation of the Price Page Schedule cannot be regarded as an infringement of the right under Art. 19(1)(a).	Arguments of Respondent
According to the respondent the economies of news papers and the maximum number of pages that a paper can give with a reasonable margin for advertisement space was worked out by the Press Commission which also suggested a tentative Price Page Schedule.	Arguments of Respondent
In formulating the schedule the Press Commission took into account various factors such as cost of (1) newsprint, (2) composing and printing, (3) distribution, (4) commission payable, (5) editorial and managerial expenses and (6) general overhead charges.	Arguments of Respondent
The present Price Page Schedule is said to be based upon the one formulated by the Press Commission.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further stated trial the present measures have been adopted upon the recommendation of the Press Commission which after stating that the proper functioning of democracy requires that every individual should have equal opportunity to put forward his opinions suggested that measures should be adopted in reduce the differences due to economic advantages and other causer to enable newcomers to start with it fair chance of success.	Arguments of Respondent
It is with this end in view that the present rates are stated to have been prescribed.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent further points out that the bulk of the Indian language newspapers priced at 7 nP. will not find any difficulty whatsoever in conforming to the requirements of the Order because they give, five or less than five pages on week days.	Arguments of Respondent
Only a few newspapers will be remotely affected by the Order bit in their case the issue of large number of pages is due to factors not connected with the functioning of the freedom of speech and expression but for reasons connected with their business activities.	Arguments of Respondent
Newspapers, according to the respondent, are able to give more pages because of their large advertisement revenue or because they belong to a group or chain of newspapers which do not entirely depend upon the individual income of each newspaper.14.	Arguments of Respondent
It is said that the petitioners in particular are able to give additional number of pages because they devote a larger volume of space to advertisements than others and that this is not something done in the lawful exercise of their right of freedom of speech and expression or of the right of dissemination of news and views.	Arguments of Respondent
It is however as already stated, admitted on behalf of the respondent that a newspaper is a product sold below the cost of production.	Arguments of Respondent
The conclusion suggested by the respondent is that it is only by increasing the revenue from advertisement that a newspaper can increase the number of its pages.15.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the respondent the true purpose of the impugned legislation being the prevention of unfair competition which has resulted in denying to others a right of propagation of ideas by publishing newspapers, this legislation cannot be said to infringe the right of freedom of expression of a newspaper but on the other, and said to be one which promotes and encourages healthy, journalism.	Arguments of Respondent
The impugned provisions will, according to the respondent, affect only those classes of newspapers which unfairly compete with the smaller onesa kind of competition which is considered by the Press Commission as unhealthy and against the interests of healthy journalism in a growing democracy.	Arguments of Respondent
It is then said that it is necessary to avoid unfair competition and even to promote healthy competition that the papers have to be put on a criteria of equality and that this cold only be done by directly restricting the publication of large number of pages its against the price charged.	Arguments of Respondent
Then it is contended that what is aimed at by the impugned legislation is the avoidance of concentration of ownership without interfering with healthy competition between equals equally situated.16.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further stated that not only was the statute enacted on the recommendation of the Press Commission but that the Price Page Schedule itself was introduced in response to the demand pressed by the Indian Language Newspapers Association.	Arguments of Respondent
It is pointed out on behalf of the respondent that the quantity of import of newsprint is based on the average number of pages of newspapers published in 1957 and that, therefore, no newspaper has the unrestricted right to increase the number of pages over the 1957 figure.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also pointed out that the draft Price Page Schedule has been approved by the Indian Language Newspapers Association and that this Association has recommended that the life of the Price Page Act and Order should be extended by another five to ten years.	Arguments of Respondent
It is denied that the provisions of the Act infringe the rights conferred by Art.	Arguments of Respondent
14 of the Constitution.17.	Arguments of Respondent
We have already indicated earlier, briefly, the effect of the impugned Act and the Order.	None
In order to appreciate fully the contentions raised before us it would be useful to give in brief a summary of the provisions of the Act and of the impugned Order.18.	None
First, there is the preamble which says that the object of the Act is to secure to newspapers fuller opportunities of freedom of expression by preventing unfair competition.	None
This is sought to be achieved by the regulation of prices charged for newspapers in relation to their pages.	None
In this manner the legislature expects to prevent unfair competition among newspapers.19.	None
Subsection (3) of S. 1 provides that the Act shall cease to have effect on the expiration of a period of five years from its commencement except as respects things done or omitted to be done before the expiration.	None
The Act came into force on September 7, 1956, and was thus due to expire on September 6,1961.	None
The AttorneyGeneral, however, told us that it was proposed to extend the life of the Act by a further period of five years and we understand that its life has now been extended for an indefinite period.20.	None
Section 2 defines daily newspaper and newspaper.21.	None
Section 3 is the most important provision in the Act.	None
It is this provision which empowers the Central Government to regulate prices and pages of newspapers.	None
Subs.	None
(1) of S. 3 empowers, the Central Government to regulate the prices of newspapers in relation to their pages and sizes if it is of opinion that it is necessary to do so for the purpose of preventing unfair competition among newspapers and in particular those published in Indian languages.	None
It also empowers the Government to regulate the allocation of space to be allotted or advertising matter.	None
Subsection (2) of that section provides for an order under subs.	None
(1) to be made in relation to newspapers generally or in relation to any class of newspapers and further provides for the making of different provisions for daily newspapers and newspapers appearing at other periodical intervals as well as for different classes of newspapers.	None
Subsection(3) provides that the Central Government, in making the Order, shall have due regard to a reasonable flexibility with respect to the fall of news and flow of advertisements and other matters connected with the normal working of newspapers.	None
Subsection (4) makes it obligatory upon the Central Government to consult associations of publishers and such publishers as are likely to be affected by the Order as it may think fit with respect to the action proposed to be taken.	None
Section 4 prohibits publication or sale of newspapers in the territories to which the Act extends in contravention of any of the provisions of an order made under S. 3.22.	None
Section 5 provides for furnishing returns by newspapers to the Press Registrar.	None
Subsection (1) of S. 6 provides penalties for publication and sale of newspapers in contravention of the provisions of S. 4. Subsection (2) of S. 6 provides penalties for some other contraventions with which we are not concerned.	None
Section 7, which is the last section, prohibits the Court from taking cognizance of offences under the Act except upon a complaint in writing by the Press Registrar or by an officer authorised by him.23.	None
It will thus be seen that the Act can be brought into practical operation only after the Central Government as taken action under subs.	None
(1) of S. 3 and made an order regulating any of the matters referred to in that section.24.	None
On October 24, 1960, in exercise of the powers conferred by S. 3 the Central Government, after consultation with the Association of Newspapers and Publishers likely to be affected thereunder, made the Daily Newspapers (Price and Page) Order, 1960.	None
This Order came into force on December 12, 1960.	None
It contains a schedule to the Act, which is in two parts, Part I and Part II.	None
Part I applies to daily newspapers published on six days in a week and Part II applies to weeklies.	None
Paragraph 3 of the Order provides that where the price charged for daily newspapers is any of the price specified in Col. 1 of Part I of the Schedule the total number of pages of all the issues of that newspaper published during six days on a week shall not exceed the maximum number of pages shown against that price in that part.	None
Paragraph 4 deals with weekly editions of daily newspaper.	None
Paragraph 5 provides that the total number of pages of all the issues of a daily newspaper published shall not exceed the maximum number of pages assigned under paragraphs 3 and 4 or under paragraph 3, according as the newspaper is published on seven days in a week or on six days.	None
Then there is a proviso to this paragraph which runs thusProvided that where there is a weekly edition of any newspaper referred to in clause (b) and the price charged therefor is different from that charged on other days, the total number of pages of all the issues of that newspaper published during a week shall not exceed the maximum number of pages assigned to such newspaper under paragraph 4 and fivesixths of the maximum number of pages assigned to it under paragraph 3.Paragraph 6 permits the publication of additional number of pages during the week not exceeding six.	None
Paragraph 7 permits the publication of supplements on January 26 and August 15 each year and also once in every quarter on such special occasion as the publisher thinks fit.	None
Paragraph 8 empowers the Central Government to permit the publication of additional supplements or special editions in excess of those referred to in paragraph 7 and prescribes the number of pages which could be published.	None
Paragraph 9 relaxes to a certain extent the rigour of the provisions of paragraphs 4 to 6, in that it provides that the daily newspaper shall not be deemed to have contravened the provision of the Order unless the number of pages of all the issues of that newspaper published during any period of twelve consecutive weeks exceeds the quote assigned to such newspaper during that period.25.	None
A bare perusal of the Act and the Order thus makes it abundantly clear that the right of a newspaper to publish news and views and to utilise a many pages as it likes for that purpose is made to depend upon the price charged to the readers.	Reasoning
Prior to the promulgation if the Order every newspaper was free to charge whatever price by State regulation to publish news and views.	Reasoning
This liberty is obviously interfered with by the Order which provides for the maximum number of pages for the particular price charged.	Reasoning
The question is whether this amounts to any abridgment of the right of a newspaper to freedom of expression.	Reasoning
Our Constitution does not expressly provide for the freedom of press but it has been held by this Court that this freedom is included in freedom of speech and expression guaranteed by cl.	Reasoning
(1) (a) of Art. 19	None
(See Brij Bhushan v. State of Delhi, 2950 SCR 605 (610) AIR 1950 SC 129 (130).This freedom is not absolute for, cl.	None
(2) of Art.	Reasoning
19 permits restrictions being placed upon it in certain circumstances.	None
That clause runs thusNothing as subclause (a) of clause (1) shall affect the operation of any existing law, or prevent the State from making any law, in so far as such law imposes reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said subclause in the interests of the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order, decency or morality, or in relation to contempt of Court, defamation or incitement to an offence.	None
It is not claimed on behalf of the State that either the Act or the Order made thereunder can be justified by any of the circumstances set out in this clause.	None
The right to propagate ones ideas is inherent in the conception of freedom of speech and expression.	Reasoning
For the purpose of propagating his idea every citizen has a right to publish them, to disseminate them and to circulate them.	Reasoning
He is entitled to do so either by word of mouth or by writing.	Reasoning
The right guaranteed thus extends, subject to any law competent under Art. 19(2), not merely to the matter which he is entitled to circulate, but also to the volume of circulation.	Reasoning
In other words, the citizen is entitled to propagate his views and reach any class and number of readers as he choose subject of course to the limitations permissible under a law competent under Art. 19(2).	Reasoning
It cannot be gainsaid that the impugned order seeks to place a restraint on the latter aspect of the right by prescribing a price page schedule.	Reasoning
We may add that the fixation of a minimum price for the number of pages which a newspaper is entitled to publish is obviously not for ensuring a reasonable price to the buyers of newspaper but for expressly cutting down the volume of circulation of some newspaper by making the price so unattractively high for a class of its readers as is likely to deter it from purchasing such newspaper.26.	Reasoning
It is not disputed that every newspaper evolves a plan of its own for carrying in its activities.	None
Bearing in mind factors such as the place of publication, the class of the reading public which may be expected to subscribe to the paper, the conditions of labour, the price of material, the availability of advertisements and so on it decides upon its size, the proportion of different kinds of matter published in the newspaper, such as news, comments, views of readers, advertisements, etc., and the price to be charged.	None
The plan evolved by it is sought to be rudely shaken if not completely upset by an order which it is open to the Central Government to make under S. 3(1) with a view to curtailment of circulation of newspapers.	None
No doubt, under S. 3(4) the Government is required to consult associations of publishers.	None
Apart from the fact that the Government is not bound by the opinion of the associations, the mere circumstance that consultation with them is made obligatory, the action of the Government in formulating an order does not cease to be a direct interference with the freedom of speech and expression of a citizen.27.	None
After the schedule comes into force it will not be open to a newspaper proprietor to charge less than a certain minimum price if he wants to give a particular number of pages in his newspaper.	Reasoning
If he should contravene this order he will incur a penalty.	Reasoning
Similarly he cannot publish supplements in excess of four as and when he chooses, except with the permission of Government.	Reasoning
The Order does not indicate the circumstances which would entitle a newspaper proprietor to secure the special permission of Government.	Reasoning
Apparently, whether to allow an additional supplement or not would be dependent on the sweet will and pleasure of the Government and this would necessarily strike at the root of the independence of the press.28.	Reasoning
In Express Newspapers (Private) Ltd. v. Union of India, 1959 SCR 12 (AIR 1958 SC 578 ), this Court has laid down that while there is no immunity to the press from the operation of the general laws it would not be legitimate to subject the press to laws which take away or abridge the freedom of speech and expression or adopt measures calculated and intended to curtail circulation and thereby narrow the scope of dissemination of information or fetter its freedom to choose its means of exercising the right or would undermine its independence by driving it to seek Government aid.	None
This Court further pointed out that, a law which lays upon the Press excessive and prohibitive burdens which would restrict the circulation of a newspaper would not be saved by Art. 19(2) of the Constitution,29.	None
It must be borne in mind that the Constitution must be interpreted in a broad way and not in a narrow and pedantic sense, Certain rights have been enshrined in our Constitution as fundamental and, therefore, while considering the nature and content of those rights the Court must not be too astute to interpret the language of the Constitution in so literal a sense as to whittle them down.	Reasoning
On the other hand the Court must interpret the Constitution in a manner which would enable the citizen to enjoy the rights guaranteed by it in the fullest measure subject, of course, to permissible restrictions.	Reasoning
Bearing this principle in mind it would be clear, that the right to freedom of speech and expression carries with it the right to publish and circulate ones ideas, opinions and views with compete freedom and by resorting to any available means of publication subject again to such restrictions as could be legitimately imposed under cl.	Reasoning
(2) of Art.	Reasoning
19.The first decision of this Court in which this was recognized is Romesh Thappar v. State of Madras, 1950 SCR 594 (AIR 1950 SC 124 ).	Reasoning
There, this Court held that freedom of speech and expression includes freedom of propagation of ideas and that this freedom is ensured by the freedom of circulation.	Reasoning
In that case this Court has also pointed out that freedom of speech and expression are the foundation of all democratic organisations and are essential for the proper functioning of the processes of democracy.	Reasoning
There and in other cases this Court pointed out that very narrow and stringent limits have been set to permissible legislative abridgment of the right of freedom of speech and expression.	Reasoning
In State of Madras v. V.G. Row, 1952 SCR 597 (AIR 1952 SC 196 ), the question of the reasonableness of restrictions which could be imposed upon a fundamental right has been considered.	Reasoning
This Court has pointed out that the nature of the right alleged to have been infringed, the underlying purpose of the restrictions imposed, the extent and scope of the evil sought to be remedied thereby, the disproportion of the imposition and the prevailing conditions at that time should all enter into the judicial verdict.	Reasoning
In Dwarkadas Shrinivas v. Sholapur Spinning and Weaving Co. Ltd., 1954 SCR 674 (AIR 1954 SC this Court has pointed out that in construing the Constitution it is the substance and the practical result of the act of the state that should be considered rather than its purely legal aspect.	Reasoning
The correct approach in such cases should be to enquire as to what in substance is the loss or injury caused to the citizen and not merely what manner and method has been adopted by the state in placing the restriction.	None
In Virendra v. State of Punjab, 1958 SCR 308 ( (S) AIR 1957 SC 896 ), this Court has observed at p. 319 (of SCR) (at p. 900 of AIR), as follows It is certainly a serious encroachment on the valuable and cherished right of freedom of speech and expression if a newspaper is prevented from publishing its own or the views of its correspondents relating to or concerning what may be the burning topic of the day.30.	None
The impugned order requires all newspapers to raise their prices if they want to maintain the present number of pages.	None
The effect of raising the selling price of newspaper has been considered by the Press Commission.	None
In paragraph 164 of the Report it is observed The selling price of a paper would naturally have an important effect on its circulation.	None
In this connection we have examined the effect of pricecuts adopted by two English papers at Bombay on the circulation of those two papers as well as of the leading paper which did not reduce its price.	None
Prior to 27th October, 1952.	None
Times of India which had the highest circulation at Bombay was being sold at Rs. 026 while Free Press Journal and National Standard which rank next in circulation were being sold for Rs. 020.	None
On 27th October, 1952, Free Press Journal reduced its price to Rs. 010 and within a year had claimed to have doubled its circulation.	None
On 1st July, 1953, the National Standard was converted into a Bombay Edition of Indian Express with selling price of Rs. 016.	None
Within six months it too claimed to have doubled its circulation During this period the Times of India which did not reduce its selling price continued to retain its readership.	None
Thus it would appear that Free Press journal and Indian Express by reducing their price have been able to tap new readership which was latent in the market but which could not pay the higher prices prevailing earlier.	None
Then in paragraph 165 it is observed There is another instance illustrating the effect of selling price on the circulation.	None
The two leading Tamil papers Swadesamitran and Dinamani in Madras, anticipating towards the end of 1950 a steep rise in the price of newsprint, came to an understanding and raised the price of their papers from, Rs. 010 to Rs. 016.	None
(These papers normally carried 30 to so pages per weak).	None
The increase in price from Rs. 010 per copy to Rs. 016 was brought into effect from 1st January, 1951.	None
The result was a drastic fall in circulation in both their cases.	None
Subsequently in view of this fall in circulation they agreed to reduce their prices to the old figure.	None
While the original fall in circulation crane about in three months duration one paper took more than 9 months to recover it, old circulation, while the other had not done so. .	None
. .	None
. .	None
It may be mentioned in this connection that the circulation of a competing paper.	None
Thanthi, . . . .	None
.	None
did not use during the three months when the two leading papers had increased the price . . .	None
nor did it fall when the prices of the leading papers were lowered again.	None
The conclusion, therefore, appears to be that over 33,000 readers had stopped taking any papers because the price had been raised The period examined coincided with an accentuation of drought conditions in Tamil Nadu a certain fall in circulation all round can be attributed to these conditions.	None
Nevertheless, it cannot be denied that a change in price did have a profound effect on the circulation of those two papers.31.	None
Though the prices of newspapers appear to be on the low side it is a fact that even so many people find it difficult to pay that small price.	None
Thus is what has been pointed out by the Press Commission in paragraph 52 of its Report.	Reasoning
According to it the most common reason for people in not purchasing newspapers is the cost of the newspaper and the inability of the household to spare the necessary amount.	Reasoning
This conclusion is based upon the evidence of a very large number of individuals and representatives of Associations.	Reasoning
We would, therefore, be justified in relying upon it and holding that raising the price of a newspaper even by a small amount such as one nP. in order that its present size be maintained.	Reasoning
would adversely affect its circulation.32.	None
It is, however, said that it is not necessary for newspapers to raise their prices but that they could reduce their number of pages.	None
For one thing, requiring newspapers to reduce their sizes would be compelling them to restrict the dissemination of news and views and thus directly affecting their right under Art.	Reasoning
19(1)(a)But it is said that the object could be achieved by reducing the advertisements.	Reasoning
That is to say, the newspapers would be able to devote the same space which they are devoting today to the publication of news and views by reducing to the necessary extent the space allotted to advertisements.	Reasoning
It is pointed out that newspapers allot a disproportionately large space to advertisements.	Reasoning
It is true that many newspapers do devote very large areas to advertisements.	Reasoning
But then the Act is intended to apply also to newspapers which may carry no or very few advertisements.	Reasoning
Again, after the commencement of the Act and the coming into force of the Order a newspaper which has a right to publish any number of pages for carrying its news and views will be restrained from doing so except upon the condition that it raises the selling price as provided in the schedule to the Order.	Reasoning
This would be the direct and immediate effect of the Order and as such would be violative of the right of newspapers guaranteed by Art.	Reasoning
19(1)(a).33.	None
Again, S. 3(1) of the Act in so far as it permits the allocation of space to advertisements also directly affects freedom of circulation.	None
If the area for advertisements is curtailed the price of the newspaper will be forced up.	None
If that happens, the circulation will inevitably go down.	None
This would be no remote, but a direct consequence of curtailment of advertisements.34.	None
We would consider this matter in another way also.	None
The advertisement revenue of a newspaper is proportionate to its circulation.	None
Thus the higher the circulation of a newspaper the larger would be its advertisement revenue.	Reasoning
So if a newspaper with a high circulation were to raise its price its circulation would go down and this in turn would bring down also the advertisement revenue.	Reasoning
That would force the newspaper either to close down or to raise its price.	Reasoning
Raising the price further would affect the circulation still more and thus a vicious cycle would set in which would ultimately end in the closure of the newspaper.	Reasoning
If, on the other hand, the space for advertisement is reduced the earnings of a newspaper would go down and it would either have to run at a loss or close down or raise its price.	Reasoning
The object of the Act in regulating the space for advertisements is stated to be to prevent unfair competition.	Reasoning
It is thus directed against circulation of a newspaper.	Reasoning
When a law is intended to bring about this result there would be a direct interference with the right of freedom of speech and expression guaranteed trader Art.	Reasoning
19(1)(a).35.	None
Since the very object of the impugned law is to affect the circulation of certain newspapers which are said to be practising unfair competition it is difficult to appreciate how it could be sustained.	None
The right to freedom of speech and expression is an individual right guaranteed to every citizen by Art. 19(1)(a)) of the Constitution.	None
There is nothing in cl.	Reasoning
(2) of Art. 19 which permits the State to abridge this right on the ground of conferring benefits upon the public in general or upon a section of the public.	Reasoning
It is not open to the State to curtail or infringe the freedom of speech of one for promoting the general welfare of a section or a group of people unless its action could be justified under a law competent under cl.(2) of Art. 19.	Reasoning
It is admitted that the impugned provisions cannot be justified on the grounds referred to in the aforesaid clause.36.	None
It was, however, contended on behalf of the State that there are two aspects of the activities of newspapersthe dissemination of news and views and the commercial aspect.	None
These two aspects, it is said are different from one another and under cl.	Arguments of Respondent
(6) of Art.	Arguments of Respondent
19 restrictions can be placed on the latter right in the interest of the general public.	Arguments of Respondent
So far as it is relevant for the purpose of the argument cl.	None
(6) reads thus Nothing in subclause (g) of the said clause shall affect the operation of any existing law in so far as it imposes or prevent the State from making any law imposing in the interests of the general public, reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said subclause37.	None
It may well be within the power of the State to place, in the interest of the general public, restrictions upon the right of a citizen to carry on business but it is not open to the State to achieve this object by directly and immediately curtailing any other freedom of that citizen guaranteed by the Constitution and which is not susceptible of abridgment on the same grounds as are set out in cl.	None
(6) of Art.	Arguments of Respondent
19.	None
Therefore, the right of freedom of speech cannot be taken away with the object of placing restrictions on the business activities of a citizen.	None
Freedom of speech can be restricted only in the interests of the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order decency or morality or in relation to contempt of court, defamation or incitement to an offence.	None
It cannot, like the freedom to carry on business, be curtailed in the interest of the general public.	None
If a law directly affecting it is challenged, it is no answer that the restrictions enacted by it are justifiable under cls.	None
(3) to (6).	Reasoning
For the scheme of Art. 19 is to enumerate different freedoms separately and then to specify the extent of restrictions to which they may be subjected and the objects for securing which this could be done.	Reasoning
A citizen is entitled to enjoy each and every one of the freedoms together and cl.	Reasoning
(1) does not prefer one freedom to another.	Reasoning
That is the pain meaning of this clause.	Reasoning
It follows from this that the State cannot make a law which directly restricts one freedom even for securing the better enjoyment of another freedom.	Reasoning
All the greater reason, therefore, for holding that the State cannot directly restrict one freedom by placing an otherwise permissible restriction on another freedom.38.	Reasoning
Viewing the question from this angle it would be seen that the reference to the Press being a business and to the restriction imposed by the impugned Act being referable or justified as a proper restriction on the right to carry on the business of publishing a newspaper would be wholly irrelevant for considering whether the impugned Act infringes or does not infringe the freedom guaranteed by Art. 19 (1) (a).39.	None
The only question that would then remain would be whether the impugned enactment directly impinges on the guarantee of freedom of speech and expression.	None
It would directly impinge on this freedom either by placing restraint upon it or by placing restraint upon something which is an essential part of that freedom.	None
The freedom of a newspaper to publish any number of pages or to circulate it to any number of persons is each an integral part of the freedom of speech and expression.	None
A restraint placed upon either of them would be a direct infringement of the right of freedom of speech and expression.	None
Perhaps an illustration would make the point clear.	None
Let us suppose that the enactment had said that newspaper A or newspaper B (ignoring for the moment the objection to the illustration based upon Art. 14) shall not have more than a specified number of subscribers.	None
Could such a law be valid in the face of the guarantee under Art. 19(1)(a)?	None
The answer must unhesitatingly be no, because such a law would be recognised as directly impinging upon the freedom of expression which encompasses freedom of circulation and to restrain the citizen from propagating his views to any other beyond the limit or number prescribed by the statute.	None
If this were so, the fact that the legislation achieves the same result by means of the schedule or rates makes no difference and the impact on the freedom would still be direct notwithstanding that it does not appear so on its face.40.	None
Here the Act by enacting Ss. 4 and 5 directly prohibits a newspaper from exercising that right should the newspaper fail to comply with the requirement of an Order made under S. 3.	None
This is a direct invasion of the right under Art. 19	None
(1) (a) and not an incidental or problematic effect thereon as was found in the Express News papers case, 1959 SCR 12 (AIR 1958 SC 578 ).	None
In that case the challenge to certain provisions of the Working Journalists (Conditions of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955, was on the ground that it infringes the right guaranteed by Art. 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.	None
That challenge failed because the object of that enactment was to Secure the amelioration the condition of working journalists and also because the law did not have the effect of directly interfering with the right of the newspaper proprietors guaranteed under Art. 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.	None
The distinction between direct and indirect effect of a law upon the freedom of press has been adverted to in that case.	None
At p. 135 (of SCR) (at 620 of AIR Bhagwati, J., who spoke for the Court has saidAll the consequences which have been visualized in this behalf by the petitioners, viz., the tendency to curtail circulation and thereby narrow the scope of dissemination of information, fetters on the petitioners freedom to choose the means of exercising the right, likelihood of the independence the press being undermined by having to seek government aid. . . . . .	None
etc, would be remote and depend upon various factors which may or may not come into play.	None
Unless these were the direct or inevitable consequences of the measures enacted in the impugned Act, it would not be possible to strike down the legislation as having that effect and operation.41.	None
That the impugned Act was intended to affect circulation and thus directly affect the freedom of speech is discernible also from the preamble which we may here quote.	None
It runs thusAn Act to provide for the regulation of the prices charged for newspapers in relation to their pages and of matters connected therewith for the purpose of preventing unfair competition among newspapers so that newspapers may have fuller opportunities of freedom of expression.42.	Arguments of Respondent
Its object thus is to regulate something which as already stated, is directly related to the circulation of a newspaper.	Reasoning
Since circulation of a newspaper is a part of the right of freedom of speech the Act must be regarded as one directed against the freedom of speech.	Reasoning
It has selected the fact or thing which is an essential and basic attribute of the conception of the freedom of speech, viz., the right to circulate ones views to all whom one can reach or care to reach for the imposition of a restriction.	Reasoning
It seeks to achieve its object of enabling what are termed the smaller newspapers to secure larger circulation by provisions which without disguise are aimed at restricting the circulation of what are termed the larger papers with better financial strength.	Reasoning
The impugned law far from being one, which merely interferes with the right of freedom of speech incidentally, does so directly though it seeks to achieve the end by purporting to regulate the business aspect of a newspaper.	Reasoning
Such a course is not permissible and the courts must be ever vigilant in guarding perhaps the most precious of all the freedoms guaranteed by our Constitution.	Reasoning
The reason for this is obvious.	Reasoning
The freedom of speech and expression of opinion is of paramount importance under a democratic Constitution which envisages changes in the composition of legislatures and governments and must be preserved.	Reasoning
No doubt, the law in question was made upon the recommendation of the Press Commission but since its object is to affect directly the right of circulation of newspapers which would necessarily undermine their power to influence public opinion it cannot but be regarded as a dangerous weapon which is capable of being used against democracy itself.43.	Reasoning
In these circumstances the Act and the Order cannot be sustained upon the ground that it merely implements a recommendation of the Press Commission and was thus not made with an ulterior object.	Reasoning
The decision in Hamdard Dawakhana v. Union of India, (1960) 2	Reasoning
SCR 671 (AIR 1960 SC 554 ) upon which reliance was placed by the respondent in support of the contention that where an enactment is challenged on the ground of violation of fundamental rights it is legitimate to take into consideration several factors including the purpose of the legislation, the mischief intended to be suppressed, the remedy proposed by the legislature and the true reason for that remedy does not, therefore, arise for consideration.	Reasoning
Similarly, Since the Act taken in conjunction with the Order made thereunder operates as a restraint on the freedom of speech and expression of newspapers the mere fact that its object was to suppress unfair practices by newspapers would not validate them.	Reasoning
Carrying on unfair practices may be a matter for condemnation.	Reasoning
But that would be no ground for placing restrictions on the right of circulation.44.	Reasoning
It was argued that the object of the Act was to prevent monopolies and that monopolies are obnoxious.	Arguments of Petitioner
We will assume that monopolies are always against public interest and deserve to be suppressed.	None
Even so, upon the view we have taken that the intendment of the Act and the direct and immediate effect of the Act taken along with the impugned Order was to interfere with the freedom of circulation of newspapers the circumstance that its object was to suppress monopolies and prevent unfair practices is of no assistance.45.	None
The legitimacy of the result intended to be achieved does not necessarily imply that every means to achieve it is permissible for even it the end is desirable and permissible, the means employed must not transgress the limits laid down by the Constitution.	Reasoning
If they directly, impinge on any of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution it is no answer when the constitutionality, of the measure is challenged that apart from the fundamental right infringe the provision is otherwise legal.46.	Reasoning
Finally it was said that one of its objects is to give some kind of protection to small or newly started newspapers and, therefore, the Act is good.	Reasoning
Such an object may be desirable but for attaining it the State cannot make inroads on the right of other newspapers which Art. 19(1)(a) guarantees to them.	Reasoning
There may be other ways of helping them and it is for the State to search for them but the one they have chosen falls foul of the Constitution.47.	Reasoning
To repeat, the only restrictions which may be imposed on the rights of an individual under Art.19(1)(a) are those which cl.(2) of Art.19 permits and no other.48.	Reasoning
Coming to Writ Petitions Nos. 67 and 68 of 1961, considering that the relief granted by us in the main petition will redress the grievance of the petitioners in these two petitions it will be only of academic interest to decide whether they, as readers of newspapers, can complain of an interference with their right under Art. 19 (1)(a).	None
We, therefore, refrain from making any Order on their petitions.49.	None
Upon the view we take it would follow that S. 3(1) of the Act, which is its pivotal provision, is unconstitutional and, therefore, the Daily Newspaper (Price and Page) Order, 1960 made thereunder is also unconstitutional.	Decision
If S. 3(1) is struck down as bad, nothing remains in the Act itself.50.	Decision
Accordingly we allow this petition with costs.	Decision
The petitioners in W. Ps.	Decision
Nos. 67 and 68 of 1961 as well as the interveners will bear their respective costs.51.	None
Petition allowed.	None
