 Civil Appeal Nos. 40724073 of 2007 The only question on which the leave has been granted by this Courts order dated August 31, 2007 is as follows When the Assessee had itself capitalized the interest and other expenditure incurred towards creation assets.	Issue
Whether the Commissioner of Incometax (Appeals) and the Tribunal were right and justified in allowing the Assessee to claim the said expenditure as revenue expenditure without any just cause?	Issue
Briefly stated, the facts of the present appeals are as follows The Respondent is a public limited company.	Facts
For the assessment year 200001 it had incurred an expenditure of Rs. 3,37,84,348 towards payment of interest on loans taken and other items for setting up the industry.	Facts
Even though it had capitalised the said amount and claimed depreciation before the assessing authority, however, in appeal, the Respondent raised additional ground claiming deduction of the aforesaid amount on interest paid with some other expenditure on other items connected therewith as revenue expenditure.	Facts
2. The Commissioner of Incometax (Appeals) vide order dated March 5, 2004 allowed the claim of the RespondentAssessee only to the extent of interest amount of Rs. 2,92,45,670 paid on loans taken by it for establishing the industry.	Facts
He, however, disallowed the other expenditures, namely, financial charges, professional expenses, upfront fee, etc.	Facts
The Revenue, feeling aggrieved by the said allowance, preferred an appeal before the Incometax Appellate Tribunal which vide order dated December 2, 2004 upheld the order of the Commissioner of Incometax (Appeals) in so far as it related to the allowance of the expenditure claimed towards payment of interest and also allowed expenditure on other items connected therewith.	Facts
The High Court did not interfere in the appeal preferred by the Revenue on the ground that the Tribunal has followed the decision of the Gujarat High Court in the case of Deputy CIT v. Core Healthcare Ltd. 2001 251 ITR 61 (Guj).	Facts
Feeling aggrieved, the Commissioner of Incometax has preferred the present appeal.	Facts
We have heard learned Counsel for the parties.	None
We find that this Court in the case of Deputy CIT v. Core Health Care Ltd. 2008 2 SCC 465 2008 298 ITR 194 (SC) has affirmed the view taken by the Gujarat High Court.	None
In this view of the matter, we are of the considered opinion that the Incometax Appellate Tribunal was justified in allowing the expenditure of Rs. 3,37,84,348 towards the interest paid on the loans taken and expenditure on other items connected therewith for establishment of the unit, while affirming the order of the Commissioner of Incometax (Appeals).	Reasoning
Learned Counsel for the RevenueAppellant submitted that the Respondent cannot claim depreciation on the amount of interest which has been allowed as revenue expenditure and therefore, the depreciation referable to such interest expenditure be reversed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Counsel for the Respondent however submitted that there is nothing on record that depreciation on this amount has been taken by the Respondent.	Arguments of Respondent
Be that as it may, if as a fact the Respondent has taken any depreciation on the amount of interest and other items which has been allowed as revenue expenditure that much depreciation should be reversed by the assessing authority.	Decision
Subject to the aforesaid observations, the appeals fail and the same are dismissed.	None
Civil Appeal Nos. 6391 and 8336 of 2013 List these appeals next week.	None
