 Bachawat, J. 1.	None
The appellant is the Ruler of the former Indian State of Jaora.	Facts
He had money dealings with the respondent.	Facts
By an agreement dated February 23, 1957, the appellant and the respondent agreed to refer their disputes regarding those dealings to the arbitration of Lala Durgashankar.	Facts
On the Same date, the arbitrator trade an award.	Facts
By this award the arbitrator found that a sum of Rs. 1.60,000 was due to the respondent from the appellant, and directed that this sum would be payable in eight quarterly instalments, the first four instalments to be of Rs. 21,000 each and the next four instalments to be of Rs. 19,000 each, the amount of interest would be payable in another quarterly instalment, the respondent would have a first charge on the sums receivable by the appellant from the Government of India as privy purse, and would be entitled to realise those sums under a letter of authority issued by the appellant and if the Government would raise any objection to the payment the respondent would have the right to realise the dues from the personal property of the appellant Some of the items of the loans in respect of which the award was made were secured on lands and ornaments.	Facts
The award therefore providedThe documents relating to debts obtained on lands and ornaments shall remain as before all the payment of the debts and they shall also remain as securities all then, and the Nawab saheb shall have no right to transfer the land.	Facts
The award was signed by the arbitrator and also by the appellant and the respondent.	Facts
2.	None
On the same day, the arbitrator filed the award in the Court of the District Judge, Ratlam.	Facts
Notice of the filing of the award under S. 14 of the Indian Arbitration Act, 1940 was duly served on the parties.	Facts
On March 9, 1957, an agent of the appellant filed a written submission accepting the award and requesting the Court to pass a decree in terms of the award.	Facts
But the same day, an application was made by another agent of appellant intimating that steps would be taken for setting aside award.	Facts
The Court fixed March 23, 1957 for filing the objection.	Facts
The time was subsequently extended up to April 2, 1957.	Facts
On that day, an application was filed on behalf of the appellant praying for setting aside the award.	Facts
But on April 5, 1957, an application was filed on behalf of the appellant withdrawing the objections and asking the Court to pass a decree in terms of the award, subject to the modification that the amount of the award would be payable in quarterly instalments of Rs. 13,000 each.	Facts
This application was signed by the respondent in taken of his consent to the modification of the amount of the instalments.	Facts
On April 30, 1957, the arbitrator filed the relevant papers.	Facts
On the same day, an agent of the appellant filed an application praying for setting aside the compromise and the award.	Facts
The case was fixed for hearing in June 19, 1957.	Facts
On that date, the Court received by registered post an application from the appellant withdrawing the objections and praying for in order in accordance with the compromise application filed on April 5, 1957.	Facts
In the circumstances, on June 19, 1957, the Court recorded the compromise and passed a decree in terms of the award as modified by the compromise.	Facts
The appellant filed in the Madhya Pradesh High Court Appeal No. 81 of 1957 under S. 39 of the Indian Arbitration Act, 1940 against the Order dated June 19, 1957 treating it as an Order refusing to set aside the award.	Facts
The appellant also filed Appeal No. 82 of 1957 under Order 43(1) (m) of the Code of Civil Procedure against the Order dated June 19, 1957 recording the compromise.	Facts
3.	None
In the meantime, the respondent stated Execution Case No. 5 of 1957 and on September 9, 1957 obtained an ex parte Order for transfer of the decree to the Court of the District Judge, Delhi.	Facts
On November 1, 1957, the Central Government gave a certificate under S. 86 (3) read with S. 87B of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 consenting to the execution of the decree against the properties of the appellant.	Facts
On November 8, 1957, the District Judge, Delhi passed a prohibitory Order under O. 21, R. 46 of the Code of Civil Procedure in respect of sums payable to the appellant on account of the Privy purse.	Facts
By letter dated December 26, 1957, the Central Government informed the appellant of the prohibitory Order.	Facts
On January 8, 1958, the appellant applied to the Court of the District Judge, Ratlam praying for vacating the Order of transfer of the decree and for cancellation of the certificates issued under O.21, R. 6 (b) of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Facts
By Order dated March 15, 1958 the Court recalled the decree and cancelled the certificate as prayed for on the ground that the amount receivable by the appellant on account of his privy purse was not attachable.	Facts
The respondent preferred Appeal No. 33 of 1958, before the High Court against this Order.	Facts
By another Order dated January 7, 1959, the District Judge, Ratlam dismissed certain objections of the appellant filed in Execution Case No.2 of 1958.	Facts
We are informed that the appellant filed before the High Court Appeal No. 13 of 1959 from this Order.	Facts
4. Appeals Nos. 81 and 82 of 1957, 33 of 1958 and 13 of 1959 were heard and disposed of the High Court by a common judgment on October 10, 1960.	Facts
The High Court dismissed Appeals Nos. 81 and 82 of 1957 and 13 of 1959 preferred by the appellant and allowed Appeal No. 33 of 1958 preferred by the respondent.	Facts
The appellant has preferred to this Court Civil Appeal No. 568 of 1963 against the Order of the High Court passed in Appeal No. 33 of 1958.	Facts
He has also preferred Civil Appeal No. 767 of 1963 from the Order of High Court passed in Appeals Nos. 81 and 82 of 1957.	Facts
Civil Appeals Nos. 568 and 767 of 1963 were heard together, and are being disposed of by this common judgment.	Facts
5.	None
On behalf of the appellant, Mr. Pathak raised three contentions only.	Arguments of Petitioner
He argued that (1) the award affected immovabel property of the value of more than Rs. 100, and as it was not registered, no decree could be passed in terms of the award (2) the proceeding under S. 14 of the Indian Arbitration Act, 1940 were incompetent in the absence of the consent of the Central Government under S. 86 (1) read with S. 87B, Code of Civil Procedure, and the decree passed in those proceeding is without jurisdiction and null and void and (3) the amount receivable by the appellant from the Central Government as his privy purse is a political pension within the meaning of S. 60 (1) (g), Code of Civil Procedure, and is not liable to attachment or sale in execution of decree.	Arguments of Petitioner
These contentions are disputed by Mr. Iyengar on behalf of the respondent.	Arguments of Respondent
The first two contentions of Mr.Pathak arise in Civil Appeal No. 767 of 1963 and the third contention arises in Civil Appeal No. 568 of 1963.	Arguments of Respondent
5a.	Reasoning
The first contention raised by Mr. Pathank must be rejected.	Reasoning
The award stated that the existing documents relating to debts obtained on lands would remain as before, and they would remain as securities till payment of the debts and the appellants would have no right to transfer the land.	Reasoning
This portion of the award stated an existing fact.	Reasoning
It did not create, or of its own force declare any interest in any immoveable property.	Reasoning
Consequently, the document did not come within the purview of Section 17 of the Indian Registration Act, 1908, and was not required to be registered.	Reasoning
6.	None
The second contention of Mr. Pathak raises question of construction of Ss. 86 and 87 B of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Issue
By reason of S. 86 (1) read with S. 87B, no Ruler of any former Indian State may be sued in any Court otherwise competent to try the suit except with the consent of the Central Government.	Reasoning
Section 86 (2) provides that the requisite consent may be given with respect to a specified suit or with respect to several specified suits or with respect to all suits of any specified class or classes.	Reasoning
Section 86 plainly deals with a special class of suits, and this conclusion is reinforced by the heading of Part IV, Suits in Particular Cases, in which Ss. 86 and 87B appear.	Reasoning
Order 4, R. 1, Code of Civil Procedure provides that every suit shall be instituted by presenting a plaint to the Court or such other officer as it appoints in this behalf.	Reasoning
In the context of S. 176 of the Government of India Act, 1935, Mahajan and Mukherjea, JJ. observed that the expression sue means the enforcement of a claim or civil right by means of legal proceedings, see Province of Bombay v. Khushaldas S. Advani, 1950 SCR 621 at pp.	Reasoning
661, 697, (AIR 1950 SC 222 at pp. 236, 249).	Reasoning
But in the context of the Indian Limitation Act, 1908, Lord Russell of Killowen observed in Hansraj Gupta v. Officcial Liquidator, Dehra Dun Mussoorie Electric Tramway Co., 60 Ind App 13 at p. 19 (AIR 1933 PC 63 at P. 64)The word suit ordinarily means, and apart from some context must be taken to mean, a civil proceeding instituted by the presentation of a plaint.	Reasoning
And construing S. 86 of the Code of Civil Procedure, Shah, J. speaking on behalf of this Court observed in Bhagwat Singh v. State of Rajasthan, AIR 1964 SC 444 at pp. 445, 446The appellant is recognised under Article 866(22) of the Constitution as a Ruler of an Indian State, but S. 86 in terms protects a Ruler from being sued and not against the institution of any other proceeding which is not in the nature of a suit.	Reasoning
A proceeding which does not commence with a plaint or petition in the nature of plaint, or where the claim is not in respect of dispute ordinarily triable in a Civil Court, would prima facie not be regarded as falling within S. 86, Code of Civil Procedure.	Reasoning
7.	None
Now, a proceeding under S. 14 read with S. 17 of the Indian Arbitration.	Reasoning
Act, 1940 for the passing of a judgment and decree on an award does not commence with a plaint or a petition in the nature of a plaint, and cannot be regarded as a suit and the parties to whom the notice of the filing of the award is given under S. 14(2) cannot be regarded as sued in any Court otherwise competent to try the suit, within the meaning of S. 86 (1) read with S. 87B, Code of Civil Procedure.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the institution of this proceeding against the Ruler of a former Indian State is not barred by S. 86(1) read with S. 87B. Section 141, Code of Civil Procedure does not attract the provisions of Section 86(1) read with S. 87B to the proceedings under S. 14 of the Indian Arbitration Act, Section 86(1) read with S. 87B confers upon the Ruler of former Indian States substantive rights of immunity from suits.	Reasoning
Section 141 makes upplicable to other proceedings only those provisions of the Code which deal with procedure and not those which deal with substantive rights.	Reasoning
Nor does S. 41(a) of the Indian Arbitration Act 1940 carry the matter any further.	Reasoning
By that section, the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 are made applicable to all proceeding before the Court under the Act.	Reasoning
Now, by its own language S. 86(1) applies to suitsonly, and S. 141, Code of Civil Procedure does not attract the provisions of S. 86(1) to proceedings other than suits.	Reasoning
Accordingly, by the conjoint application of S. 41(a) of the Indian Arbitration Act and Ss. 86(1) and 141 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the provisions of S.86 (1) are not attracted to a proceeding under S. 14 of the Indian Arbitration Act, 1940.	Reasoning
It follows that the Court was competent to entertain the proceedings under S. 14 of the Indian Arbitration Act, 1940 and to pass a decree against the appellant in those proceedings, though no consent to the institution of those proceedings had been given by the Central Government.	Reasoning
A sovereign foreign State and a Ruler of such State may enjoy a winder immunity from legal proceedings other than suits under the rules of International Law recognised by our Courts.	Reasoning
but the appellant is not now a Ruler of a sovereign State, and cannot claim immunity from proceedings other than suits.	Reasoning
The second contention of Mr. Pathak must, therefore, be rejected.	Reasoning
8.	None
The third contention of Mr. Pathak raises the question whether an amount payable to a Ruler of a former Indian State as privy purse is a political pension within the meaning of S. 60(1)(g), Code of Civil Procedure.	Issue
The word pension in S. 60(1)(g), Code of Civil Procedure implies periodical payments of money by the Government to the pensioner.	None
See Nawab Bahadur of Murshidabad v. Karnaui Industrial Bank Ltd., 58 Ind App 215 at pp.	None
219, 220 (AIR 1981 PC 160 at pp.	None
161, 162).	None
And in Bishambhar Nath v. Nawab Imdad Ali Khan, 17 Ind App 181 at p. 186 (PC) Lord Watson observedA pension which the Government of India has given a guarantee that it will pay by a treaty obligation contracted with another sovereign power, appears to their.	None
Lordships to be, in the strictest sense a political pension.	None
The obligation to pay as well as the actual payment of the pension, must, in such circumstances, be ascribed to reasons of State policy.	None
9.	None
Now, the history of the integration and the ultimate absorption of the Indian states and of the guarantee for payment of periodical sums as privy purse to the Rulers of the former Indian States are well known.	None
Formally Indian States were semisovereign vassal States under the suzerainty of the British Crown with the declaration of Independence, the paramountey of the British Crown lapsed as from August 15, 1947, and the Rulers of Indian States became politically independent sovereigns.	None
The Indian States parted with their sovereignty in successive stages, firstly on accession to the Dominion of India, secondly on integration of the States into sizeable administration units and on closer accession to the Dominion of India, and finally on adoption of the Constitution of India and extinction of the separate existence of the States and Unions of States.	None
During the second phase of this political absorption of the States, the rulers of the Madhya Bharat States including the Ruler of Jaora State entered into a Covenant on April 22, 1948 for the formation of the United States of Gwalior, Indore and Malwa Madhya Bharat).	None
By Art. II of the Covenant, the Covenanting States agreed to unite and integrate their territories into one State.	None
Article VI provided that the Ruler of each Covenanting State shall not later than July 1, 1948 make over the administration of the State to the Rajpramukh and thereupon all lights, authority and jurisdiction belonging to the Ruler and appertaining or incidental to the Government of the State would vest in the United State of Madhya Bharat.	None
Article XI (1) provided that the Ruler of each Covenanting State shall be entitled to receive annually, from the revenues of the United State for his privy parse the amount specified against that Covenanting State in Schedule I.	None
In Sch. 1, a sum of Rs. 4,75,000 was specified against the State of Jaora.	None
Article XI(2) provided that the amount, of the privy purse was intended to cover all the expenses of the Ruler and his family including expenses of his residence, marriage and other ceremonies and neither be increased nor reduced for any reason whatsoever.	None
Article XI (3) provided that the Rajpramukh would cause the amount to be paid to the Ruler in four equal instalments at the beginning of each quarter in advance.	None
Article XI (4) provided that the amount would be free of all taxes whether imposed by the Government of the United States or by the Government of India.	None
Article XIII of the Covenant secured to the Ruler of each Covenanting State all personal Privileges, dignities and titles then enjoyed by them.	None
Article XIV guaranteed the succession, according to law and custom, to the gaddi of each Covenanting State and to the personal rights, privileges, dignities and titles of the Ruler.	None
The Covenant was signed by all the Rulers of the Covenanting States.	None
At the foot of the Covenant, it was Stated that The Government of India hereby concur in the above Covenant and guarantee all its provisions.	None
In confirmation of this consent and guarantee, the Covenant was signed by a Secretary to the Government of India.	None
10.	None
On the coming into force of the Constitution of India the terrtories of Madhya Bharat became an integral part of India.	None
Article 291 of the Constitution provideWhere under any covenant or agreement entered into by the Ruler of any Indian State before the commencement of this Constitution, the payment of any sums, free of tax, has been guaranteed or assured by the Government of the Dominion of India to any Ruler of such State as privy purse.	None
(a) such sums shall be charged on, and paid out of the Consolidated Fund of India and (b) the sums so paid to any Ruler shall be exempt from all taxes on income.	None
In view of the guarantee by the Government of the Dominion of India to the Ruler of Jaora State in the covenant for the formation of the United State of Madhya Bharat the payment of the sums specified in the covenant as privy purse to the Ruler because charged on the Consolidated Fund of India, and became payable to him free from all taxes no income.	None
Article 362 Provided that in the exercise of the legislative and executive powers.	None
due regard shall be had to the guarantee given in any such covenant as is referred to in Art.	None
291 with respect to the personal rights, privileges and dignities of the Ruler of an Indian State.	None
Article 363 (1) provides that notwithstanding anything contained in the Constitution, the Court would have no jurisdiction in any dispute arising out of any provision in any covenant entered into by any Ruler of an Indian State to which the Government of the Dominion of India was a party, or in any dispute in respect of any right accruing under or any liability or obligation arising out of any of the provisions of the Constitution relating to any such covenant.	None
Article 366 (22) provides that the expression Ruler in relation to an Indian State means a person by whom the covenant referred to in Art.	None
291(1) was entered into and who for the time being is recognised by the President as the Ruler of the State, and includes any person who for the time being is recognised by the President as the successor of such Ruler.	None
11.	None
Now, the Covenant entered into by the Rulers of Madhya Bharat States was a treaty entered into by the Rulers of independent States by which they gave up their soveignty over their respective territories and vested it in the new United State of Madhya Bharat.	Reasoning
The Covenant was an act of State, and any violation of its terms cannot form the subject of any action in any municipal courts.	Reasoning
The Guarantee given by the Government of India was in the nature of a treaty obligation contracted with the sovereign Rulers of Indian States and cannot be enforced by action in municipal courts.	Reasoning
Its sanction is political and not legal.	Reasoning
On the coming into force of the Constitution of India, the guarantee for the payment of periodical sums as privy purse is continued by Act.	Reasoning
291 of the Constitution, but its essential periodical character is preserved by Art.	Reasoning
363 of the Constitution, and the obligation under this guarantee cannot be enforced in any municipal court.	Reasoning
Moreover, if the President refuses to recognise the person by whom the Covenant was entered into as the Ruler of the State, he would not be entitled to the amount payable privy purse under Art. 291.	Reasoning
Now, the periodical payment of money by the Government to a Ruler of a former Indian State as privy purse all political considerations and under political sanctions and not under a right legally enforceable in any municipal court is strictly a political pension within the meaning of S. 60 (1)(g) of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Reasoning
The use of the expression privy purse instead of the expression pension is due to historical reasons.	Reasoning
The privy purse satisfies all the essential characteristies of a political pension, and as such, is protected from execution under S. 60(1)(g), Code Civil Procedure.	Reasoning
Moreover, an amount of the privy purse receivable from the Government cannot be said to be a debt or other property over which or the proceeds of which he has disposing power within the main part of S. 60 (1), Code of Civil Procedure.	Reasoning
It follows that the third contention of Mr. Pathak must be accepted, and it must be held that the amounts of the privy purse are not liable to attachment or sale in execution of the respondents decree.	Reasoning
The third contended is raised, in Civil Appeal No. 568 of 1963 arising out of Appeal No. 33 of 1953.	Reasoning
It follows that Civil Appeal No. 568 of 1963 must be allowed.	Reasoning
All the contentions raised in Civil Appeal No. 767 of 1963 arising from Appeal Nos. 81 and 82 of 1957 fail, and according this appeal must be dismissed.	Reasoning
12.	None
In the result Civil Appeal No. 568 of 1963 is allowed, the order of the High Court in Appeal No. 33 of 1958 is set aside and the order of the District Judge dated March 15, 1958 is restored with costs in this Court only.	Decision
Civil Appeal No. 767 of 1963 is dismissed with costs.	Decision
13.	None
Order accordingly.	None
