Kapadia, J. For the sake of convenience we state the facts occurring in Civil Appeal Nos.395255 of 2002  Dy. Commr. of Income Tax, Ahmedabad v.	None
M s. Core Health Care Ltd.	None
These civil appeals are directed against judgment and order dated 25.4.01 delivered by Gujarat High Court in Tax Appeal Nos.449 and 450 of 2000 and in Civil Application Nos.53 and 54 of 2001 whereby the Departments appeals, under Section 260A of the Incometax Act, 1961, stood dismissed.	None
On 31.12.92 assessee filed its return of income for A.Y. 199293 declaring nil income.	Facts
Later on the assessee filed a revised return on 6.8.93 declaring a loss of Rs.1,11,68,543/. Assesseecompany is engaged in the business of manufacturing and sale of intravenous solutions.	Facts
For the assessment year under consideration assessee claimed deduction towards expenses aggregating to Rs.2,12,05,459/ which included interest on borrowings of Rs.1,56,76,000/. During the assessment year under consideration assessee had installed new machinery.	Facts
The A.O. vide assessment order dated 30.3.95 disallowed the amount of Rs.1,56,76,000/ placing reliance on the judgment of this Court in Challapalli Sugars Ltd. Anr.	Facts
v. Commissioner of Incometax, A.P. and Anr.  	Facts
(1975) 98 ITR 167 , inter alia, on the ground that during the assessment year under consideration assessee had installed new machinery on which production had not started.	Facts
On appeal, vide order dated 15.11.96, CIT (A) confirmed the addition of interest amount on borrowings of Rs.1,56,76,000.	Facts
Therefore, both the authorities, namely, the A.O. and CIT (A) added the said amount of Rs.1,56,76,000/ to the income of the assessee.	Facts
The matter was carried in appeal by the assessee.	Facts
Vide order dated 6.6.2000 the Tribunal held that the Department was not justified in adding Rs.1,56,76,000/ to the income of the assessee.	Facts
In other words, the Tribunal held that the A.O. was not justified in making disallowance of Rs.1,56,76,000/ in respect of borrowings utilized for purchase of machinery.	Facts
This decision was confirmed by the High Court, hence these civil appeals are filed by the Department.	None
The following question of law has been placed before us for determination Whether interest paid in respect of borrowings on capital assets not put to use in the concerned financial year can be permitted as allowable deduction under Section 36(1)(iii) of the Incometax Act, 1961?	Issue
According to the Department, the assessee was not entitled to treat the interest on borrowings as revenue expenditure.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the Department, in view of Explanation 8 to Section 43(1) of the Incometax Act, 1961 (for short, 1961 Act) the assessee was not entitled to claim deduction for interest on borrowings, particularly, when the machines were not put to use during the assessment year under consideration.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the Department, provisions of Section 36(1)(iii) of the 1961 Act were required to be harmoniously construed along with the provisions of Explanation 8 to Section 43(1) regarding actual cost.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the Department provisions of Section 36(1)(iii) being general in nature had to give way to the special provisions contained in Explanation 8 of Section 43(1) of the 1961 Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
At the outset, we may clarify that before the High Court it was not the case of the Department that a new business was set up or commenced during the assessment year under consideration.	None
It was undisputed before the High Court that three additional machines were installed by the assessee during the assessment year under consideration for the production of intravenous injectibles.	None
It was not in dispute that the assessee had borrowed moneys during the accounting year commencing from 1.4.91 to 31.3.92.	None
We quote herein below Section 36(1)(iii) and Explanation 8 to Section 43(1) of the 1961 Act which read as follow OTHER DEDUCTIONS36.	None
(1) The deductions provided for in the following clauses shall be allowed in respect of the matters dealt with therein, in computing the income referred to in Section 28 (iii) the amount of the interest paid in respect of capital borrowed for the purposes of the business or profession Provided that any amount of the interest paid, in respect of capital borrowed for acquisition of an asset for extension of existing business or profession (whether capitalised in the books of account or not) for any period beginning from the date on which the capital was borrowed for acquisition of the asset till the date on which such asset was first put to use, shall not be allowed as deduction.	None
Explanation Recurring subscriptions paid periodically by shareholders, or subscribers in Mutual Benefit Societies which fulfill such conditions as may be prescribed, shall be deemed to be capital borrowed within the meaning of this clauseDefinitions of certain terms relevant to income from profits and gains of business or profession.43.	None
In sections 28 to 41 and in this section, unless the context otherwise requires (1) actual cost means the actual cost of the assets to the assessee, reduced by that portion of the cost thereof, if any, as has been met directly or indirectly by any other person or authorityProvided that where the actual cost of an asset, being a motor car which is acquired by the assessee after the 31st day of March, 1967, but before the 1st day of March, 1975, and is used otherwise than in a business of running it on hire for tourists, exceeds twentyfive thousand rupees, the excess of the actual cost over such amount shall be ignored, and the actual cost thereof shall be taken to be twentyfive thousand rupees.	None
Explanation 8 For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that where any amount is paid or is payable as interest in connection with the acquisition of an asset, so much of such amount as is relatable to any period after such asset is first put to use shall not be included, and shall be deemed never to have been included, in the actual cost of such asset.	None
Interest on moneys borrowed for the purposes of business is a necessary item of expenditure in a business.	None
For allowance of a claim for deduction of interest under the said section, all that is necessary is that  firstly, the money, i.e. capital, must have been borrowed by the assessee secondly, it must have been borrowed for the purpose of business and, thirdly, the assessee must have paid interest on the borrowed amount See Calico Dyeing Printing Works v. Commr.	None
Of Incometax, Bombay CityII  (1958) 34 ITR 265 .	None
All that is germane is whether the borrowing was, or was not, for the purpose of business.	None
The expression for the purpose of business occurring in Section 36(1)(iii) indicates that once the test of for the purpose of business is satisfied in respect of the capital borrowed, the assessee would be entitled to deduction under Section 36(1)(iii) of the 1961 Act.	None
This provision makes no distinction between money borrowed to acquire a capital asset or a revenue asset.	None
All that the section requires is that the assessee must borrow capital and the purpose of the borrowing must be for business which is carried on by the assessee in the year of account.	None
What subsection (iii) emphasizes is the user of the capital and not the user of the asset which comes into existence as a result of the borrowed capital unlike Section 37 which expressly excludes an expense of a capital nature.	None
The legislature has, therefore, made no distinction in Section 36(1)(iii) between capital borrowed for a revenue purpose and capital borrowed for a capital purpose.	Reasoning
An assessee is entitled to claim interest paid on borrowed capital provided that capital is used for business purpose irrespective of what may be the result of using the capital which the assessee has borrowed.	Reasoning
Further, the words actual cost do not find place in Section 36(1)(iii) of the 1961 Act which otherwise find place in Sections 32, 32A etc of the 1961 Act.	Reasoning
The expression actual cost is defined in Section 43(1) of the 1961 Act which is essentially a definition section which is subject to the context to the contrary.	Reasoning
In the case of Commissioner of Incometax v. Associated Fibre and Rubber Industries (P) Ltd.  (1999) 236 ITR 471 , the Division Bench of this Court held as follows Even though the machinery has not been actually used in the business at the time when the assessment was made, the same has to be treated as a business asset as it was purchased only for business purposes.	None
In the circumstances, the interest paid on the amount borrowed for purpose of such machinery is certainly a deductible amount.	None
As stated above, the Department contended before us that the judgments of this Court, prior to insertion of Explanation 8 in Section 43(1) of the 1961 Act, has no application to the present case.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the Department, Section 36(1)(iii) of the 1961 Act being general in nature has to give way to special provisions contained in Explanation 8 to Section 43(1) of the 1961 Act.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the Department, in none of the earlier judgments this Court has considered the true scope of Explanation 8 to Section 43(1) visvis Section 36(1)(iii) of the 1961 Act.	Arguments of Respondent
We find no merit in this contention.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 43 groups together all provisions in the nature of definitions or interpretations relevant to the computation of income under the head Profits and Gains of Business.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 43(1) defines actual cost.	Arguments of Respondent
The definition of actual cost has been amplified by excluding such portion of the cost as is met directly or indirectly by any other person or authority.	Arguments of Respondent
Explanation 8 has been inserted in Section 43(1) by Finance Act, 1986 (23 of 1986), with retrospective effect from 1.4.74.	Arguments of Respondent
It is important to note that the word actual cost would mean the whole cost and not the estimate of cost.	Arguments of Respondent
Actual cost means nothing more than the cost accurately ascertained.	Arguments of Respondent
The determination of actual cost in Section 43(1) has relevancy in relation to Section 32(depreciation allowance), Section 32A(investment allowance), Section 33 (development rebate allowance), and Section 41(balancing charge).	Arguments of Respondent
Actual cost of an asset has no relevancy in relation to Section 36(1)(iii) of the 1961 Act.	Arguments of Respondent
This reasoning flows from a bare reading of Section 43(1).	Arguments of Respondent
Section 43 defines certain terms relevant to income from profits and gains of business and, therefore, the said section commences with the words In Sections 28 to 41 and unless the context otherwise requires actual cost shall mean the actual cost of the assets to the assessee, reducing by that portion of the cost thereof, if any, as has been met directly or indirectly by any other person or authority.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words, Explanation 8 applies only to those Sections like Sections 32, 32A, 33 and 41 which deal with concepts like Depreciation.	Arguments of Respondent
The concept of Depreciation is not there in Section 36(1)(iii).	Arguments of Respondent
That is why the legislature has used the words unless the context otherwise requires.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, Explanation 8 has no relevancy to Section 36(1)(iii).	Arguments of Respondent
It has relevancy to the aforementioned enumerated sections.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, in our view Explanation 8 has no application to the facts of the present case.	Arguments of Respondent
Before concluding on this point we may state that in this batch of civil appeals we are concerned with the assessment years 199293, 199394, 199596 and 199798.	Reasoning
A proviso has since been inserted in Section 36(1)(iii) of the 1961 Act.	Reasoning
That proviso has been inserted by Finance Act, 2003 w.e.f. 1.4.2004.	Reasoning
Hence, the said proviso will not apply to the facts of the present case.	Reasoning
Further, in our view the said proviso would operate prospectively.	Reasoning
In this connection it may be noted that by the same Finance Act, 2003 insertions have been made by way of proviso in Section 36(1)(viia) by the same Finance Act which is also made with effect from 1.4.2004.	Reasoning
Same is the position with regard to insertion of a subsection after Section 90(2) and before the Explanation.	Reasoning
This insertion also operates w.e.f. 1.4.04.	Reasoning
In short, the above amendments have been made by Finance Act, 2003 and all the said amendments have been made operational w.e.f. 1.4.04.	Reasoning
Therefore, the proviso inserted in Section 36(1)(iii) has to be read as prospectively and w.e.f. 1.4.04.	Reasoning
In this case, we are concerned with the law as it existed prior to 1.4.2004.	Reasoning
As stated above, we are not concerned with the interpretation or applicability of the said proviso to Section 36(1)(iii) w.e.f. 1.4.04 in the present case.12.	Reasoning
In the case of Challapalli Sugars Ltd. (supra) this Court observed that interest paid on the borrowing utilized to bring into existence a fixed asset which has not gone into production, goes to add to the cost of installation of that asset.	Reasoning
It was further observed that if the said borrowing was not for the purpose of business inasmuch as no business had come into existence, it must follow that it was made for the purpose of acquiring an asset which could be put to use for doing business, and hence interest paid on such borrowing would go to add to the cost of the assets so acquired.13.	Reasoning
In our view the above observations have to be confined to the facts in the case of Challapalli Sugars Ltd. (supra).	Reasoning
It was a case where the company had not yet started production when it borrowed the amount in question.	Reasoning
The more appropriate decision applicable to the present case would be the judgment of this court in the case of India Cements Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax, Madras  (1966) 60 ITR 52 in which it has been observed that, for considering whether payment of interest on borrowing is revenue expenditure or not, the purpose for which the borrowing is made is irrelevant.	Reasoning
In our view, Section 36(1)(iii) of the 1961 Act has to be read on its own terms.	Reasoning
It is a Code by itself.	Reasoning
Section 36(1)(iii) is attracted when the assessee borrows the capital for the purpose of his business.	Reasoning
It does not matter whether the capital is borrowed in order to acquire a revenue asset or a capital asset, because of that the section requires is that the assessee must borrow the capital for the purpose of his business.	Reasoning
This dichotomy between the borrowing of a loan and actual application thereof in the purchase of a capital asset, seems to proceed on the basis that a mere transaction of borrowing does not, by itself bring any new asset of enduring nature into existence, and that it is the transaction of investment of the borrowed capital in the purchase of a new asset which brings that asset into existence.	Reasoning
The transaction of borrowing is not the same as the transaction of investment.	Reasoning
If this dichotomy is kept in mind it becomes clear that the transaction of borrowing attracts the provisions of Section 36(1)(iii).	Reasoning
Thus, the decision of the Bombay High Court in Calico Dyeing Printing Works (supra) and the judgment of the Supreme Court India Cements Ltd. (supra) have been given with reference to the borrowings made for the purposes of a running business, while the decision of the Supreme Court in Challapalli Sugars Ltd. (supra) was given with reference to the borrowings which could not be treated as made for the purposes of business as no business had commenced in that case.	Reasoning
Therefore, there is no inconsistency between the above decisions.	None
CONCLUSIONS For the above reasons, we hold that A.O. was not justified in making disallowance of Rs.1,56,76,000/ in respect of borrowings utilized for purchase of machines.	Decision
Accordingly, the above question is answered in favour of the assessee and against the Department.15.	Decision
Apart from the above question under Section 36(1)(iii), the present civil appeals are filed by the Department against the decision of the High Court whereby the High Court has dismissed Civil Application Nos.53 and 54 of 2001 filed by the Department.	Decision
It may be noted that during the pendency of Tax Appeal Nos.449 and 450 of 2000, the Department had moved the above two civil applications for amendment of its Memo of Appeal raising substantial questions of law, namely  (a) whether advertisement expenses incurred by the assessee to create a brand image with enduring benefit are allowable as revenue expenditure (b) whether the Tribunal had erred in granting deduction under Section 35D regarding shortterm loan, in view of Explanation to Section 35D(3) which refers only to longterm borrowings (c) whether the Tribunal had erred in directing deduction under Section 80HH and 80I on the miscellaneous income of Rs.26,64,113 being income on sale of empty containers?16.	Decision
Although the Department had moved the said Civil Application Nos.53 and 54 of 2001 during the pendency of Tax Appeal Nos.449 and 450 of 2000 well within limitation the High Court without answering the above three questions summarily rejected Civil Application Nos.53 and 54 of 2001.	Decision
We are of the view that the High Court had erred in dismissing the above two civil applications for amendment of the Memo of Appeal in Tax Appeal Nos.449 and 450 of 2000.	Decision
In our view the above three questions are substantial questions of law and, therefore, the High Court ought to have decided those questions.17.	Decision
Accordingly, we remit the above three questions to the High Court for fresh consideration by it in accordance with law.	Decision
Accordingly, Civil Appeal Nos.395255 of 2002 and Civil Appeal Nos.85098510 of 2002 filed by the Department are partly allowed with no order as to costs.	Decision
