 RAY, C.J. 1.	None
These six appeals are by certificate from the judgment dated 23 January, 1968 of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad in C.M.A. No. 210 and 374 of 1967 in that High Court.	Issue
2.	None
Two questions arise for decision in these appeals.	Issue
First, whether in the circumstances of the case, there was any property of the Hyderabad Cooperative Commercial Corporation Ltd. hereinafter referred to as the Cooperative Society.	Issue
Which could be attached by the decree holders,  the appellants in Civil Appeal No. 1708 of 1969 and Civil Appeal No. 2539 of 1969 in the hands of the Director of Civil Supplies.	Issue
Second, whether the dissolution of  the Hyderabad Cooperative Commercial Corporation Ltd. by the Registrar of Cooperative Societies was competent.	Issue
3. Syed Mohiuddin Khadri, hereinafter referred to as the decree holder , obtained on 24 August, 1959 a decree from the City Civil Court, Hyderabad against the Cooperative Society for a sum of Rs. 6, 91, 293 11 Ps. with interest.	Facts
4.	None
On 23 November, 1959, the decree holder filed an Execution Petition before the City Civil Court against the Cooperative Society for attachment inter alia of a sum of Rs. 4, 50, 000/ belonging to the Co operative society and in the custody of the Commissioner of Civil Supplies and the Accountant General, Hyderabad.	Facts
On 27 November, 1959, the City Civil Court issued a prohibitory order to the Commissioner of Civil Supplies to hold the said sum until further orders.	Facts
Pursuant to the order, on 2 December, 1959, the accountant General wrote to the Commissioner of Civil Supplies that in view of the order of the Court, no payment relating to the Cooperative Society would be made by his office without the concurrence of the Court.	Facts
The decree holder contends that the attachment is valid.	Facts
The State contend s that there was no debt due to the Cooperative Society and therefore, there was no valid attachment.	Facts
5.	None
The facts and circumstances under which the City Civil Court made an order for attachment are these.	Facts
The State budget for 19 5960 provides for payment of Rs. 4, 50, 000/ to the Cooperative Society.	Facts
In the Execution Application, the decree holder stated that the sum of Rs. 4, 50, 000/ mentioned in the budget was a debt due to the Co operative Society.	Facts
The decree holder further alleged that the sum Of Rs. 4, 50, 000/ belonging to the Cooperative Society was in the custody and control of the Commissioner of Civil Supplies and the Accountant General, Hyderabad as evidenced by the budget provision and a letter dated 12 June, 1959 issued by the Commissioner of Civil Supplies to the District Treasury officers.	Facts
The letter dated 12 June, 1989 written by the Assistant Chief Accounts officer and approved by the Commissioner and addressed to District Treasury officers stated that The following provisions for the Civil Supplies department are made under the above major head (meaning thereby Trading Civil Supplies) in the budget estimates for the year 195960 (1) payment to Hyderabad Cooperative Commercial Corporation Rs. 4,50,000/ .	Facts
You are requested to kindly make the payments under the above heads as per rules and intimate to this office the full particulars of the amounts and expenditure incurred in your district every fortnight on the 5th and 20th of the succeeding month to which they relate for watching the expenditure as a whole against the above provision.	Facts
6.	None
The City Civil Court on these facts issued a prohibitory order on 27 November, 1959 directing the Commissioner of Civil Supplies to hold the sum until further orders.	Facts
The Accountant General, pursuant to the said prohibitory order, wrote to the Court on 2 December, 1959 that no payment relating to the Cooperative Society would be made by his office without the concurrence of the Court.	Facts
7.	None
The High Court held that the mere fact that the Commissioner of Civil Supplies directed the Treasury officer to make payments to the Cooperative Society as and when occasion arose did not mean that the amount as a whole became the property of the Cooperative Society in the hands of the Disbursing officer namely, the Commissioner of Civil Supplies.	Facts
The High Court held that the provisions of order 21, Rule 52 of the Code of Civil Procedure did not apply and the attachment affected and the prohibitory order made by the City Civil Court and the directions to deposit the amount were not valid.	Facts
8.	None
It may be stated here that the State filed a suit C. S. No. 1 of 1962 under order 21, Rule 63 of the Code of Civil Procedure challenging the order of attachment.	Facts
The suit was withdrawn by the Government.	Facts
The High Court held that the withdrawal of the suit did not preclude the Government from questioning the validity of the attachment.9.	Facts
On behalf of the State, it was contended that the budget appropriation of Rs. 4, 50, 000/ for the financial year 195960 did not make the sum the property of the Co operative Society in the custody of the Public officer.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also contended by the State that the said sum was not a debt due to the Cooperative Society.	Arguments of Petitioner
The State also contended that the rules require claim being made, bill being processed, scrutinity as to whether there is sufficient fund credited to the appropriation for payment and in the present case, there was no order for actual payment.	Arguments of Petitioner
Another contention on behalf of the State was that even if the attachment was legal, it would cease to be so by the end of the financial year because the property was not brought into Court and the amount lapsed.	Arguments of Petitioner
10.	None
The documents in the present case and in particular the letter dated 12 June, 1959 and the letter dated 2 December, 1959 written by the Accountant General to the Court establish that there was a debt due to the Cooperative Society and the attachment was validly made.	Reasoning
The letter dated 12 June, 1959 provided for payment and the payment was approved by the Commissioner.	Reasoning
The officers disbursing the amount were to pay in accordance with the rules and inform the Department about the expenditure incurred in that behalf.	Reasoning
There is intrinsic evidence in the letter dated 12 June, 1959 that the approval by the Commissioner is not only sanction of the payment but also approval of the same.	Reasoning
Payment in accordance with rules means that documents are to be vouched and there should be particulars of payment and identification of the persons to whom payment is to be made.	Reasoning
11.	None
The letter dated 2 December, 1959 written by the Accountant General to the Court is tantamount to the money being nationally brought to the Court.	Reasoning
The Accountant General said that the payment was not to be made except with the concurrence of the Court.	Reasoning
Thus it came into the control of and was held on behalf of the Court.	Reasoning
The amount of Rs. 4, 50, 000/ was not a mere budget provision but the documents show that the amount had ripened into a debt and an order for payment to the Cooperative Society.	Reasoning
The sum of Rs. 4,50,000/ was impressed with the character of a debt due to the Cooperative Society and it was validly attached.	Reasoning
12.	None
The contention on behalf of the State that the amount was not brought into Court and there fore, the provision lapsed is devoid of substance.	Reasoning
13.	None
The letter dated 12 June, 1959 provided for payment of the sum of Rs. 4, 50, 000/.	Reasoning
The letter of the Accountant General dated December 2, 1959 indicated that the Accountant General pursuant to the order of the Court dated 27 November, 1959 brought the money to the Court.	None
14.	None
Attachment of debts is a process by means of which a judgment creditor is enabled to reach money due to the judgmentdebtor which is in the hands of a third person.	None
These are garnishee proceedings.	None
To be capable of attachment, there must be in existence at the date when the attachment becomes operative something which the law recognises as a debt.	None
So long as there is a debt in existence, it is not necessary that it should be immediately payable.	None
Where any existing debt is payable by future installments, the garnishee order may be made to become operative as and when each installment becomes due.	None
The debt must be one which the judgmentdebtor could himself enforce for his own benefit.	None
A debt is a sum of money which is now payable or will become payable in the future by reason of a present obligation (See Webb v. Stenton(1).	None
In the present case, the letter dated 12 June, 1959 proves that there is an obligation to pay the specified sum of Rs. 4, 50, 000/ to the Cooperative Society.	Reasoning
The budget provision fastened on to the claim of the Cooperative Society against the State and it ripened into a debt payable	Reasoning
t o the Cooperative Society.	Reasoning
Therefore, in the circumstances, the attachment levied by he City Civil Court was perfected by bringing money to the Court.	Reasoning
15.	None
The second question which falls for determination is whether the dissolution of the Cooperative Society by the Registrar of Cooperative Societies was competent.	Issue
The State Registrar of Cooperative Societies on 6 September, 1960 cancelled the registration of the Cooperative Society under section 53 of the Hyderabad Cooperative Societies Act, 1952 and appointed a liquidator.	None
The decreeholder filed Writ Petition No. 763 of 1960 on 2 November, 1960 before the High Court and impugned the validity of the order of liquidation.	None
The High Court on 19 September, 1961 dismissed the writ petition and upheld the order of liquidation.	None
16.	None
Though the High Court dismissed the writ petition, the High Court had to deal with the question of liquidation of the Cooperative Society in C.M.A. No. 210 of 1967 and	Reasoning
C.M.A. No. 374 of 1967 .	Reasoning
These two out of the order of the City Civil Court dated 11 July, 1967 in the decreeholders Execution Petition No. 95 of 1959.	Reasoning
The City Civil Court held that the judgment of the High Court upholding the validity of the order of dissolution and appointment of the liquidator in Writ Petition No. 763 of 1960 did not prevent the decreeholder from contending that the State Registrar had no jurisdiction to pass the order of liquidation.	Reasoning
The High Court in the appeal in C.M.A. No. 210 of 1967 and C.M.A. No. 374 of 1967 held that though the High Court had decided in Writ Petition No. 763 of 1960 upholding the validity of the liquidation yet the order of liquidation could not be sustained because the delegation made under section SB of the Multiunit Cooperative Societies Act, 1942 was incompetent.	Reasoning
17.	None
The liquidator in Civil Appeal No. 1268 of 1969 and Civil Appeal No 1733 of 1969 submitted that the liquidator was interested only in sustaining the validity of the order of liquidation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The liquidator is not interested in the dispute between the State and the decreeholder in regard to the order of attachment.	Arguments of Petitioner
18.	None
In order to appreciate the rival contentions of the decreeholder and the liquidator on the validity of the order of liquidation, it is necessary to refer to the provisions of Multiunit Cooperative Societies Act, 1942.	None
The 1942 Act applies to Cooperative Societies registered before the commencement of the Act and also to Societies which became registered after the commencement of the Act of 1942.	None
The Cooperative Society was a Society registered before the Reorganisation of the States in 1956.	None
As such the Society is a Multiunit Society governed by the 1942 Act.	Reasoning
The decreeholder did not challenge this position.	Reasoning
The contention of the decreeholder is that under section 4 of the 1942 Act, the Central Registrar of Cooperative Societies shall exercise in respect of any Cooperative Society and to the exclusion of State Registrar, the powers and functions exercisable by the Registrar of Cooperative Societies of the State in which such Society is registered.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 5B of the 1942 Act which speaks of delegation of any power or authority exercisable by Central Registrar to be exercisable by Registrar of Cooperative Societies of a State is contended by the decree holder to exclude the State Registrar from acquiring any power by delegation.	Arguments of Respondent
The decreeholder contended that the power of delegation contemplated in section SB was confined only to matters mentioned in section 5A of the 1942 Act.	Arguments of Respondent
19.	None
Under the 1942 Act Multiunit Cooperative Societies whether registered before or after the coming into force of the Act were governed by the Cooperative Societies Act of the States in which they were registered.	None
Under the 1942 Act and in particular sections 2 and 3 thereof, some powers like those of inspection, audit were given to Registrars of other States where such Societies had branches.	None
20.	None
Under section 4(1) of the 1942 Act, the Central Government may, if it thinks fit, appoint a Central Registrar of the Cooperative Societies.	None
Section 4(2) of the 1942 Act provides that the Central Registrar of Cooperative Societies, if appointed, shall exercise in respect of any cooperative society to which the 1942 Act applies, to the exclusion of State Registrars, the powers and functions exercisable by the Registrar of Cooperative Societies of a State in which such Society is actually registered.	Arguments of Respondent
The powers which the Central Registrar is to exercise under the 1942 Act are powers under the Cooperative Societies Act of the State where a particular Society is registered.	None
The power s exercisable by the State Registrar under the Cooperative Societies Act are by reference under section 4(2) of the 1942 Act incorporated into the 1942 Act and exercisable by the Central Registrar where the Central Registrar is appointed by the Central Government.	None
21.	None
The State Registrar was admittedly competent to exercise in respect of the Cooperative Society all powers under the Hyderabad Cooperative Societies Act, 1952 referred to as the 1952 State Act.	Reasoning
Under the 1952 State Act, the State Registrar had the power to dissolve the Cooperative Society and appoint a liquidator.	Reasoning
22.	None
The Central Government appointed a Central Registrar of Co operative Societies for the first time on 29 December, 1956.	Reasoning
If the matters had rested there, the State Registrar would have been divested of his powers over the Society under the State Act as from that date.	Reasoning
The matters, however, did not rest there.	Reasoning
Section 5B of the 1942 Act empowers the Central Government to delegate any power or authority exercisable by the Central Registrar under the Act to State Registrars and certain other officers by a Notification published in the official Gazette.	Reasoning
Simultaneously with the appointment of the Central Registrar, the Central Government published a Notification on 29 December, 1956 delegating the powers or authority under the 1942 Act in relation to certain, matters including dissolution to the State Registrars and other officers mentioned in the Notification in respect of Societies registered in their respective States.	Reasoning
The Registrar of Societies, Andhra Pradesh was specifically mentioned in the Notifications.	Reasoning
23.	None
The result of the Notification was that the powers under the State Act of 1952 of which the State Registrar was divested by the appointment of the Central Registrar were immediately restored to him.	Reasoning
It is in exercise of these powers under the State Act of 1952 which were restored to the State Registrar that he passed the order of dissolution of the Society and appointed a liquidator on 6 September, 1960.	Reasoning
24.	None
Section 5B of the 1942 Act empowers the Central Government to Delegate any power or authority exercisable by the Central Registrar of Cooperative Societies under this Act (meaning thereby the 1942 Act) to the State Registrars and other officers.	Arguments of Respondent
The language in section 5B of the 1942 Act is plain.	None
There are no words of limitation or reservation.	None
The expression any power or authority exercisable by the Central Registrar of Cooperative Societies under this Act takes in all powers under the 1942 Act including those under section 4(2) which are the powers under the State Act embodied by reference in that section.	None
25.	None
The simultaneous introduction of section 5A and section 5B into the 1942 Act in the year 1956 with effect from 1 November, 1956 point to the fact that section 5B follows section SA but does not confine section SB only to matters mentioned in section 5A of the 1942 Act.	Reasoning
The contention on behalf of the decreeholder that the expression any power or authority exercisable by the Central Registrar of Cooperative Societies under this Act in section SB means only powers o r authority under section 5A of the Act is unsound.	Reasoning
Section 5A of the 1942 act is a transitional provision regarding certain Cooperative Societies affected by the Reorganisation of States.	Reasoning
The provisions contained in section 5B of the 1942 Act do not have any words of restriction in their application only to Section 5A of the 1942 Act.	Reasoning
on the contrary, the provisions in section 5B of the 1942 Act speak of delegation of power or authority exercisable by the Central Registrar under the 1942 Act.	Reasoning
Whatever powers are exercisable by the Central Registrar by reason of section 4(2) of the 1942 Act are capable of being delegated by reason of provisions contained in section SB of the 1942 Act.	Reasoning
The delegation by the Central Government of the powers exercisable by the Central Registrar to be exercised by the State Registrar is supported by the provision of the 1942 Art.	Reasoning
The order of delegation being valid, the State Registrar was competent to dissolve the Cooperative Society by the order dated 6 September, 1960.	Reasoning
26.	None
It is, therefore, not necessary to express any opinion as to whether the contention of the decreeholder challenging the validity of the order of dissolution of the Cooperative Society and appointment of liquidator is barred by reason of constructive resjudicata on account of the dismissal of the Writ Petition No. 763 of 1960 filed by the decree holder in the High Court.	Reasoning
27.	None
For these reasons, the judgment of the High Court is set aside.	Decision
The attachment of the sum of Rs. 4, 50, 000 is upheld.	Decision
The order of dissolution of the Cooperative Society and appointment of the liquidator are held to be valid.	Decision
28.	None
The High Court stated that it will be open to the decreeholder to take up execution against the Government.	Decision
for the amount due to him from the Cooperative Society on the ground that the Government has taken over the entire assets and liabilities of the Cooperative Society.	Decision
We affirm that finding of the High Court.	Decision
29.	None
Under the interim order of this Court, the liquidator deposited an amount of Rs. 90,000/ in the Court.	Decision
That amount was allowed to be withdrawn by the legal representative oil the decree holder on furnishing bank guarantee.	Decision
The liquidator asked for refund of that amount to the liquidator to enable him to discharge his duties according to law.	Decision
30.	None
The decreeholder will prefer the claim on account of attachment of Rs. 4,50,000/ before the Liquidator.	Decision
If in liquidation, it will appear that there are prior claims or that the decreeholder will be entitled to any rateable distribution out of Rs. 4,50,000/, the liquidator will make appropriate orders for payment of appropriate amount to the decree holder.	Decision
31.	None
We make it clear that after payment by the liquidator to the decreeholder whatever amount will remain due to the decreeholder, it will be open to the decreeholder to take up execution against the Government for the amount due by the Cooperative Society on the ground that the Government has taken over entire assets and liabilities of the Cooperative Society subject, of course, to such contentions as the Government may have.	Decision
The appeals filed by the State are dismissed.	Decision
32.	None
The decreeholder will be entitled to costs in these appeals to be paid by the State.	Decision
The liquidator will retain costs out of the assets in his hands.	Decision
The amount of Rs. 90,000/ which has been withdrawn by the decreeholder will now be refunded to the liquidator.	Decision
There will be one set of costs for the decree holders.	Decision
There will be similarly one set of costs for the liquidator.	Decision
