 Subba Rao, CJ. 1.	None
The decision on these appeals depends upon the interpretation of the relevant provisions of the Punjab General Sales Tax Act, 1948 (Punjab Act XLVI of 1948), as amended by Punjab Act of 1958, relating to three categories of goods, namely, oilseeds, iron and cotton.	Issue
2.	None
The facts may be briefly stated.	Facts
3.	None
The assessees in Civil Appeals Nos. 526, 527 and 529 of 1964 carry on business at Moga in Punjab and each owns an oil mill.	Facts
They purchase oil seeds and, after crushing the same in their oil mills, sell the oil and the residual oilcake.	Facts
They are registered dealers under the Act.	Facts
The Amending Act imposed a purchase tax of 2 per cent on the purchase of oi1seeds for the use in the manufacture of goods for sale.	Facts
This was in addition to the salestax leviable on the sales of oil and oilcake.	Facts
On June 23, 1959, the Excise and Taxation Officer, Ferozepore, the 3rd respondent in the said appeals issued notices to the 3 appellantsassessees to the effect that they did not submit their returns for the year ending 1958.39 and failed to pay purchasetax in respect thereof and asked them to show cause why they should not be prosecuted for the said default.	Facts
The appellants filed 3 petitions under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution in the High Court of Punjab questioning the validity of the relevant provisions of the Act and for appropriate reliefs.	Facts
A Division Bench of the High Court heard the petitions, along with other connected petitions and dismissed the petitions of the appellants so far as they related to purchasetax on oil seeds.	Facts
Hence the appeals.	None
4. Civil Appeals Nos. 39 to 43 of 1965 relate to purchasetax on iron.	Facts
The appellants carry on business in rolling steel at Gobindgarh.	Facts
They purchase steel scrap and steel ingots and convert them into rolled steel sections.	Facts
Under the Act, the assessing authority imposed purchasetax at the rate of 2 per cent on the purchase of steel scrap and steel ingots made by them during the period April 1, 1958 to March 31, 1959 for making rolled steel section and selling the same.	Facts
The appellants filed petitions under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution in the High Court for appropriate writs for quashing the orders of the assessing authorities and for prohibiting them from levying purchasetax on the goods purchased and for refund of the tax illegally collected from them.	Facts
A Division Bench of the High Court dismissed the petitions.	Facts
Hence the appeals.	None
5. Appeals Nos. 81 of 1965 and 540 of 1965 relate to purchasetax on cotton.	Facts
The appellants in Civil Appeal No. 81 of 1965 are the trustees of Birla Education Trust.	Facts
They own a cotton and textile mill Bhiwani.	Facts
They purchase cotton from various dealers in Punjab and outside for the manufacture of yarn and cloth.	Facts
By an order, dated March 11, 1962, the District Taxation Officer, Hissar, imposed purchasetax on the appellants in respect of the cotton purchased by them for the assessment years 195859 and 195960.	Facts
The appellant in Civil Appeal No. 540 of 1965 is a limited company carrying on the business of producing and selling yarn.	Facts
For the purpose of its business it acquires cotton from commission agents.	Facts
It is a registered dealer under the Act.	Facts
The Excise and Taxation Officer Hissar, by his order dated November 29, 1961, assessed the appellant to purchasetax for the assessment year 195859 in respect of the cotton purchased by it and so too on January 27, 1962, he had taken proceedings for making assessment to purchase tax for the assessment year 195960 in respect of the same commodity.	Facts
The appellants in both the appeals filed petitions under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution in the High Court questioning the validity of the said orders.	Facts
The said writ petitions were dismissed by a division Bench of the High Court.	Facts
Hence the appeals.	None
6.	None
We shall at first take the points raised which are common to all the appeals and then proceed to consider the points peculiar to some of the appeals.	None
7. Mr. M. C. Setalvad, learned counsel appearing for the appellants in the batch of appeals relating to tax on purchase of oilseeds, raised before us the following points which are common to other appeals (1) Section 5 of the East Punjab General Salestax.	Arguments of Petitioner
Act, 1948, was held to be void on the ground that it conferred essentially legislative power on the provincial Government and, therefore, the said section was still born and that, as the said section was the charging section, the entire Act was void, with the result Act 19 of 1952, which amended S. 5 with retrospective effect could not breathe a new life into the said Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
A void Act was non est and, therefore, could not be brought into force by an amending Act (2) Clause (ff) of Section 2 introduced by Act 7 of 1958 defining purchase, subject to the conditions mentioned therein as a taxing event was ultravires the State Legislature inasmuch as the transaction defined therein was not a sale within the meaning of that expression in entry 52 of list II of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution and was in fact an excise duty inasmuch as it was imposed on the production of oil in the garb of purchase tax.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3) The said amendment was also bad in that it made an unreasonable discrimination in the matter of taxation between the same classes of goods based on the character of the purchaser.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the goods were purchased by a manufacturer, they were liable to purchase tax and if the same goods were purchased by an ordinary dealer, they were not liable to the said tax.	Arguments of Petitioner
(4) The amended provision, Section 2 (ff), was also void because it contravened Ss. 14 and 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, where under salestax was prohibited to be imposed on the declared goods at more than one stage, whereas under the Act it could be imposed both at the purchase point and at the sale point of the transactions entered into by the manufacturer.	Arguments of Petitioner
(5) Purchasetax was not leviable on oilseeds, as the assessees did not manufacture oil out of the seeds but only produced the oil.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
We shall now proceed to consider the points seriatim.	None
The provisions relevant to the first two points read thus East Punjab General Sales Tax Act, 1948, Act 46 of 1948 Section 5. Subject to the provisions of this Act, there shall be levied on the taxable turnover every year of a dealer a tax at such rates as the Provincial Government may by notification direct East Punjab Central Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1952 Act No. 19 of 1952 Section 2.	None
Amendment of Section 5 of Punjab, Act 46 of 1948 In subsection (l) of Section 5 of the Exist Punjab General Sales Tax Act, l948, after the word rates the following words shall be inserted and shall be deemed always to have been so inserted, namely, not exceeding two pice in a rupee.	Reasoning
The High Court of Punjab held that S. 5 of the Act was void as it gave an unlimited power to the executive to levy sales tax at a rate which it thought fit.	Facts
But it held that the amendment of Section 5 by the Punjab Act l9 of 1952 cured the defect in the said Act and had the effect of giving a new life to it.	Facts
9.	None
The first question, therefore, is whether Section 5 of the East Punjab General Sales Tax Act, 1948 (46 of 1948), as it originally stood, was void, and the second question is, if the said section was void, whether the amendment could give life to it.	Issue
10.	None
The law on the subject is fairly well settled, though difficulties are met in its application to each case.	Reasoning
In Corporation of Calcutta v. Liberty Cinema, 19652 SCR 477 (AIR 1965 SC 1107 ) on which Mr. Ganapati Iyer relied relates to a levy imposed on cinema houses under the Calcutta Municipal Act (33 of 1951).	Reasoning
There, the majority held that the levy therein was a tax, that the fixing of a rate of tax was not of the essence of legislative power, that the fixing of rates might be left to a nonlegislative body and that when it was so left to such a body, the Legislature must provide guidance for such fixation.	Reasoning
The majority held in that case that such a guidance was found in the monetary needs of the Municipality for discharging the functions entrusted to it under the Act.	None
Sarkar J., speaking for the majority, said thus It (the Municipal Corporation) has to perform various statutory functions.	None
It is often given power to decide when and in what manner the functions are to be performed.	None
For all this it needs money and its needs will vary from time to time, with the prevailing exigencies.	None
Its power to collect tax however, is necessarily limited by the expenses required to discharge those functions.	None
It has, therefore, where rates have not been specified in the statute, to fix such rates as may be necessary to meet its needs.	None
That, we think, would be sufficient guidance to make the exercise of its power to fix the rates valid.	None
If this decision is all authority for the position that the Legislature can delegate its power to a statutory authority to levy taxes and fix the rates in regard thereto, it is equally an authority for the position that the said statute to be valid must give a guidance to the said authority for fixing the said rates and that guidance cannot be judged by stereotyped rules would depend upon the provisions of a particular Act.	Reasoning
To that extent his judgment is binding on us.	Reasoning
But we cannot go further, and hold the learned counsel for the respondents asked us to do, that whenever a statute defines the purpose or purposes for which a statutory authority is constituted and empowers it to levy a tax that statute necessarily contains a guidance to fix the rates it depends upon the provisions of each statute.	None
11.	None
Learned counsel for the State argued that under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
162 of the Constitution the executive power of the State shall extend to matters with respect to which the Legislature of a State has power to make laws that is to say, the executive power of a State extends to matters mentioned in List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution that under Art. 266 (1) of the Constitution all the taxes collected will go to the Consolidated Funds of the State, that the State has an unlimited power to raise funds by taxation to discharge its vast constitutional duties and that necessarily the amount of tax required would depend upon its needs which can only be known to it.	Arguments of Respondent
In the said circumstances, the argument proceeds, the doctrine of constitutional and statutory needs would afford reasonable guidelines for the Government to fix the rate and that the principle laid down by this Court in the aforesaid decision would equally apply to this case.	Arguments of Respondent
If this argument be accepted, it would mean that every statute conferring a naked power on, the Government to impose taxes would be, good, for in every case the discharge of the constitutional duties by the Government would be deemed to be a sufficient guide for fixing the rate.	Arguments of Respondent
We cannot accept this argument for three reasons, namely, (1) the decision of this Court in 19652 SCR 477 (AIR 1965 SC 1107 ) should be confined only to the provisions of the Calcutta Municipal Act wherein this Court found a guidance (2) the provisions of the Sales Tax Act including the preamble, do not disclose any policy or guidance to the State for fixing the rate and (3) the general constitutional power to impose taxes has no relevance for discovering a statutory policy under a particular Act.	Reasoning
12.	None
Nor does the decision of this Court in State of Madras v. Gannon Dunkerley and Co., Ltd.lend support to the argument so widely advanced by the learned counsel.	Reasoning
That case has nothing to do with the fixation of rates of taxes.	Reasoning
There Section 6 (1) of the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939, as amended by Madras Act XXV of 1947, provided that no tax will be payable on any sale of goods specified in the schedule to it.	None
Section 6 (2) of that Act authorised the State Government to amend the schedule by notification.	None
The amendment of the Schedule by the State Government was challenged on the ground that Section 6 (2) was invalid as it was a delegation of the essential power of legislation of the State Government.	None
Venkatarama Aiyar, J., speaking for the Court, in rejecting that contention, observed thus Now, the authorities are clear that it is not unconstitutional for the legislature to leave it to the executive to determine details relating to the working of taxation laws, such as the selection of persons on whom the tax is to be laid, the rates at which it is to be charged in respect of different classes of goods, and the like.	None
It is not necessary to scrutinize the correctness of this statement, having regard to the decisions relied upon, for this Court in 19652 SCR 477 (AIR 1965 SC 1107 ) accepted it, but made it clear that such a power to fix the rates must be supported by some reasonable guidance given under the Act whereunder the said power was conferred.	None
Nor the observations of Rajagopala Ayyangar, J. in the said decision speaking for the minority, lend support to the contentions of the respondents.	None
(1) 1959 SCR 379 at page 435 (Note apparently the reference is meant to Pandit Banarasi Das v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (1959)	None
SCR 427 at page 435 (AIR 1958 SC 909 at p. 913).	None
The references to Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939 and to the Amending Act Madras Act XXV of 1947 are incorrect.	None
There should be references to C. P. and B. Sales Tax Act, 21 of 1947 and the Amendment Act 16 of 1949 Ed.)	None
13.	None
The decision in Vasantlal Maganbhai Sanjanwala v. State of Bombay, l9611 SCR 341 (AIR 196l SC 4) raised the question whether Section 6 (2) of the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act, 1948 (Bom. LXVII of 1948), which enabled the Government to fix the rent payable by a tenant within the maximum limits prescribed thereunder, was valid.	None
When it was argued that it was bad because of excessive delegation, this Court sustained it on the basis of a legislative policy disclosed by Section 12 (3) of the Act.	None
14.	None
In Union of India v. M s. Bhana Mal Gulzari Mal, 19602 SCR 627 (AIR 1960 SC 475 )	None
this Court rejected the contention that clause 11B of Iron and Steel (Control of Production and Distribution) Order, 1941, whereunder the Central Government was authorised to issue notification fixing the maximum price of steel, was void on the ground of excessive delegation, as it found that the said clause only further canalized the policy disclosed in Ss. 3 and 4 of the Act.	None
15.	None
Further citation is unnecessary, for the principle of excessive delegation is well esettled and the cases are only illustrations of the application of the said principle.	Reasoning
The law on the subject may briefly be stated thus The Constitution confers a power and imposes a duty on the legislature to make laws.	Reasoning
The essential legislative function is the determination of the legislative policy and its formulation as a rule of conduct.	Reasoning
Obviously it cannot abdicate its functions in favour of another.	Reasoning
But in view of the multifarious activities of a welfare State, it cannot presumably work out all the details to suit the varying aspects of a complex situation.	Reasoning
It must necessarily delegate the working out of details to the executive or any other agency.	Reasoning
But there is a danger inherent in such a process of delegation.	Reasoning
An overburdened legislature or one controlled by a powerful executive may unduly overstep the limits of delegation.	Reasoning
It may not lay down any policy at all it may declare its policy in vague and general terms it may not set down any standard for the guidance of the executive it may confer an arbitrary power on the executive to change or modify the policy laid down by it without reserving for itself any control over subordinate legislation.	Reasoning
This self effacement of legislative power in favour of another agency either in whole or in part is beyond the permissible limits of delegation.	Reasoning
It is for a Court to hold on a fair, generous and liberal construction of an impugned statute whether the legislature exceeded such limits.	Reasoning
But the said liberal construction should not be carried by the Courts to the extent of always trying to discover a dormant or latent legislative policy to sustain an arbitrary power conferred on executive authorities.	Reasoning
It is the duty of the Court to strike down without any hesitation any arbitrary power conferred on the executive by the legislature.	Reasoning
See 19611 SCR 341 at pp. 356357 (AIR 1961 SC 4 at pp. 1112).	Reasoning
16.	None
Under Section 5 of the Punjab General Sales Tax Act, 1948, as it originally stood, an uncontrolled power was conferred on the provincial Government to levy every year on the taxable turnover of a dealer a tax at such rates as the said Government might direct.	None
Under that section the Legislature practically effaced itself in the matter of fixation of rates and it did not give any guidance either under that section or under any other provisions of the Act . . .no	None
other provision was brought to our notice.	None
The argument of the learned counsel that such a policy could be gathered from the constitutional provisions cannot be accepted, for, if accepted, it would destroy the doctrine of excessive delegation.	Reasoning
It would also sanction conferment of power by Legislature on the executive Government without laying down any guidelines in the Act.	Reasoning
The minimum we expect of the Legislature is to lay down in the Act conferring such a power of fixation of rates clear legislative policy or guidelines in that regard.	Reasoning
As the Act did not prescribe any such policy, it must be held that Section 5 of the said Act, as it stood before the amendment, was void.	None
17.	None
The next step in the argument of Mr. M. C. Setalvad was that Sections 4, 5 and 6 of the Punjab General Sales Tax Act, 1948, together formed a group of charging sections and they were so integrally connected with each other that if Section 5 was void, Sections 4 and 6 also fell with it, as one was not severable from the other.	Arguments of Petitioner
As the charging sections were the crux of the Act, the argument proceeded, the whole Act was void and therefore the Act amending Section 5 could not revive the Act which was stillborn.18.	Arguments of Petitioner
The relevant provisions may now be read.	None
Section 4 (i).	None
Subject to the provisions of Sections 5 and 6, every dealer except one dealing exclusively in goods declared tax free under Section 6 whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the commencement of this Act exceeded the taxable quantum shall be liable to pay tax under this Act on all sales effected after coming into force of this Act.	None
Section 5 has already been extracted.	None
Section 6 (i).	None
No tax shall be payable on the sale of goods specified in the first column of Schedule B subject to the conditions and exceptions, if any, set out in the corresponding entry in the second column thereof and no dealer shall charge sales tax on the sale of goods which are declared tax free from time to time under this section.	None
It will be seen that Section 4 is a charging section, that Section 5 provides for fixation of rates and that Section 6 prescribes for exemptions.	None
Section 4 is made subject to Sections 5 and 6.	Reasoning
If Section 5 is struck out will Section 4 become void ?	Reasoning
This will depend upon two questions, namely, (i) whether Section 5 is a charging section ?	Reasoning
and (ii) even if Section 4 alone is the charging section, as it is made subject to Section 5 and as the section subject to which it is made was stillborn, whether Section 4, on the application of the doctrine of severance, becomes void.	None
19.	None
In the context of Incometax Act it was held by this Court in Kesoram Industries and Cotton Mill Ltd. v. Commissioner of Wealthtax, (Central), Calcutta, 19662 SCR 688 at p. 708 (AIR 1966 SC 1370 at pp.	None
13791380, that the charging section for the purpose of incometax was Section 3 of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, and the annual Finance Acts only gave the rate for quantifying the tax.	None
Section 3 of the said Incometax Act read Where any Central Act enacts that incometax shall be charged for any year at any rate or rates, tax at that rate or those rates shall be charged for that year in accordance with, and subject to the provisions of, this Act in respect of the total income of the previous year of every individual,	None
Hindu undivided family, company and local authority, and of every firm and other association of persons or the partners of the or the members of the association individually.	None
20.	None
Section 2 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1957, read (1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2), (3), (4) and (5) for the year beginning on the 1st day of April, 1957, (a) incometax shall be charged at the rates specified in Part I of the First Schedule, and, in the cases to which Paragraphs A, B and C of that Part apply, shall be increased by a surcharge for purposes of the Union and a special surcharge on unearned income calculated in either case in the manner provided	None
therein It was argued that the liability to tax did not arise till the Finance Act was made and the tax quantified.	None
Dealing with this question, this Court by majority observed A liability to pay incometax is a present liability though it becomes payable after it is quantified in accordance with ascertainable data.	None
The only difference between Incometax Act and the present Act is that while in the Income tax Act Section 3 thereof does not expressly make the liability subject to the provisions of the Finance Act which fixes the rate, under the Sales Tax Act in question Section 4 thereof in terms is made subject to Section 5.But under both the Acts there is a clear distinction between chargeability and the quantification of tax.	None
While it is true that the tax cannot be realised without it being quantified, the nonquantification of the liability will not destroy the liability under the charging section.	Reasoning
The liability has to be distinguished from its enforceability.	Reasoning
It cannot be said, and indeed it is not said that the Incometax Act has no legal existence till the Finance Act is made, though till the Finance Act is made it cannot be enforced.	Reasoning
But reliance is placed on Section 67B of the Incometax Act in support of the contention that its existence in the statute book keeps the Act alive, for the rate prescribed by the previous Finance Act is applicable till the new Finance Act is passed.	Reasoning
But it will be noticed that the Courts decision was not based on the existence of the said provision but on that of charging section itself.	Reasoning
It follows that striking out Section 5 does not make Section 4 void, though till an appropriate section is inserted it remains unenforceable.	Reasoning
The decision of this Court in B. Shama Rao v. Union Territory of Pondicherry, W. P. No. 123 of 1966, D  2021967 (AIR l967 SC 1480) is clearly distinguishable.	None
There, subsection (1) of Section 2 of the Pondicherry General Sales Tax Act, X of 1965, provided that The Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1959 (No. 1 of 1959) (hereinafter referred to as the Act) as in force in the State of Madras immediately before the commencement of this Act shall extend to and come into force in the Union Territory of Pondicherry subject to the following modification, and adaptations, Section 1 (2) of the said Act provided that the Act would come into force on such date as the Government by notification may appoint.	None
The effect of the section was that the Madras Act as it stood on the date of the notification issued would be in force in the Union Territory of Pondicherry.	None
Indeed it turned out that the Madras Act was amended before the said notification.	None
This Court held that there was a total surrender in the matter of salestax legislation by the Pondicherry Assembly in favour of the Madras legislature and for that reason the said sections were void or stillborn.	None
21.	None
It was argued that the Act could not be said to be stillborn as it contained certain provisions independent of the Madras Act, viz., a section which provided for the appellate tribunal and the schedule.	Reasoning
But it was pointed out that the core of the taxing statute was in the charging section and that the remaining sections had no independent existence.	Reasoning
In the present case the charging section was intact and what was struck or was only the section providing for rates.	Reasoning
It cannot, therefore, be said that when Section 5 was struck out, Section 4 or other sections fell with it.	Reasoning
22.	None
It was then contended that even if the whole Act was not stillborn, Section 5 was non est.	Reasoning
that the amending Act did not insert a new Section 5 but purported to amend the earlier Section, which was not in existence.	Reasoning
Now under the East Punjab General Sales Tax (Seconds Amendment) Act 1952 (Act No. 19 of 1952)	Reasoning
Section 5 of the East Punjab General Sales Tax Act, 1948 was amended.	Reasoning
Section 2 of the said amending Act says In subsection (1) of Section 5 of the East Punjab General Sales Tax Act, 1948, after the word rates the following words shall be inserted and shall be deemed always to have been so inserted, namely  not exceeding two pice in a rupee.	Reasoning
No doubt in term the section inserts the words not exceeding two pice in a rupee in Section 5.	Reasoning
If Section 5 is inserted in the Act by the Amending Act with the said words added, there cannot possibly be any objection for that would be an amendment of an existing Act.	Reasoning
But in substance the amendment brings about the same effect.	Reasoning
The words shall be deemed always to have been so inserted indicate that in substance Section 5, as amended, is inserted in the Act with retrospective effect.	Reasoning
23.	None
Even so it was contended that Section 5, as amended, only gave the maximum rate and did not disclose any policy giving guidance to the legislature for fixing any rate within that maximum.	Arguments of Petitioner
Here we are concerned with salestax.	None
If the Act had said 2 pice in a rupee it would be manifest that it was a clear guidance.	Reasoning
But as the Act applies to sales or purchases of different commodities it had become necessary to give some discretion to the Government in fixing the rate.	Reasoning
Conferment of reasonable area of discretion by a fiscal statute has been approved by this Court in more than one decision see Khandige Sham Bhat v. Agricultural Incometax Officer, Kasaragod, l9633 SCR 809 (AIR 1963 SC 591 ).	Reasoning
At the same time a larger statutory discretion placing a wide gap between the minimum and the maximum rates and thus enabling the Government to fix an arbitrary rate may not be sustained.	Reasoning
In the ultimate analysis, the permissible discretion depends upon the facts of each case.	Reasoning
The discretion to fix the rate between 1 pice and 2 pice in a rupee is so insignificant that it is not possible to hold that it exceeds the permissible limits.	Reasoning
It follows that Section 5 of the Act as amended is valid.	None
24.	None
The next argument is that Section 2 (ff) inserted in the Punjab General Sales Tax Act, 1948, by the East Punjab General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Act No. 7 of 1958) and amended by Amending Act 13 of 1959 is void.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said clause (ff) as amended by Act 13 of 1959 reads Purchase, with all its grammatical or cognate expressions, means the acquisition of goods specified in Schedule C for use in the manufacture of goods for sale, for cash or deferred payment or other valuable consideration otherwise than under a mortgage, hypothecation, charge or pledge.	None
The first limb of the argument is that the definition of purchase is more comprehensive than the definition of sale under the Indian Sale of Goods Act and, therefore, the State Legislature was incompetent to make a law under entry sale or purchase.	None
in List II of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution.	Reasoning
The constitutional position is well settled.	Reasoning
Entry 54 of List II of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution reads Taxes on the sale or purchase of goods other than newspapers, subject to the provisions of entry 92A of List I. In 1959 SCR 379 at pp. 397398 (AIR 1958 SC 560 at p. 567), Venkatarama Aiyar, J., speaking for the Court, observed Thus, according to the law both of England and India, in order to constitute a sale it is necessary that there should be an agreement between the parties for the purpose of transferring title to goods which of course presupposes capacity to contract, that it must be supported by money consideration, and that as a result of the transaction property must actually pass in the goods.	None
Unless all these elements are present, there can be no sale.	Reasoning
Thus, if merely title to the goods passes but not as a result of any contract between the parties, express or implied, there is no sale This Court also held that the State Legislature, by enlarging the definition of sale, could not include transactions which were not sales according to the well established concepts of law under the Law of Contract or the Sale of Goods Act see Sales Tax Officer v. Budh Prakash Jai Prakash, AIR 1954 SC 459 and George Oakes (Private) Ltd. v State of Madras, AIR 1962 SC 1037 .	Reasoning
25.	None
Bearing that in mind let us look at Cl.	Reasoning
(ff) in S. 2 of the Principal Act in which the said clause was inserted.	Reasoning
The ingredients of the definition of purchase are as follows (i) there shall be acquisition of goods, (ii) the acquisition shall be for cash or deferred payment or other valuable consideration, (iii) the said valuable consideration shall not be other than under a mortgage, hypothecation, charge or pledge.	Reasoning
Clause (h) of S. 2 defines sale thus sale means any transfer of property in goods other than goods specified in Schedule C for cash or deferred payment or other valuable consideration but does not include mortgage, hypothecation, charge or pledge.	None
If we turn to the Sale of Goods Act, S. 4 thereof defines a contract of sale of goods.	None
It reads Contract of sale of goods is a contract whereby the seller transfers or agrees to transfer the property in goods to the buyer for a price The essential requisite of sale are (i) there shall be a transfer of property or agreement to transfer property by one party to another and (ii) it shall be for consideration of money payment or promise thereof by the buyer.	None
A sale and a purchase are different aspects of the same transaction.	Reasoning
If we look at it from the standpoint of a purchaser it is purchase and if we look at it from the standpoint of the seller it is a sale.	Reasoning
Whether purchase or sale it shall have the said ingredients both in common law and under the Indian Contract Act.	Reasoning
Price has been defined in the Sale of Goods Act to mean money consideration for the sale of goods see S. 2 (10) of the Indian Sale of Goods Act.	Reasoning
It will, therefore, be seen that the definition of purchase in the Act prima facie appears to be wider in scope than sale, While transfer of goods from one person to another is the ingredient of sale in general law, acquisition of goods, which may in its comprehensive sense take in voluntary as well as involuntary transfers is an ingredient of purchase in Cl.	Reasoning
(ff).	Reasoning
While price, i.e., money consideration, is the ingredient of sale, cash, deferred payment or any valuable consideration is an ingredient of purchase.	Reasoning
But a closer scrutiny compels us to give a restricted meaning to the expression acquisition and price.	Reasoning
Acquisition is the act by which a person acquires property in a thing.	Reasoning
Acquire is to become the owner of the property.	Reasoning
One can, therefore, acquire a property either by voluntary or involuntary transfer.	Reasoning
But the Sales Tax Act applies only to sale as defined in the Act.	Reasoning
Under Cl.	Reasoning
(ff) of S. 2 of the Act it is defined as a transfer of property.	Reasoning
As purchase is only a different aspect of sale, looked at from the standpoint of the purchaser, and as the Act imposes tax at different points in respect of sales, having regard to the purpose of the sale, it is unreasonable to assume that the Legislature contemplated different categories of transactions when the taxable event is at the purchase point.	Reasoning
Whether it is sale or purchase the transaction is the same.	Reasoning
If it was a transfer inter vivos, in the case of a sale, it must equally be so in the case of a purchase.	Reasoning
Context, consistency and avoidance of anomaly demand a restricted meaning.	Reasoning
That it must only mean transfer is also made clear by the nature of the transactions excluded from the acquisition, namely, mortgage, hypothecation, charge or pledge  all of them belong to the species of transfer.	Reasoning
We must, therefore, hold that the expression acquisition in Cl.	Reasoning
(ff) of S. 2 of the Act means only transfer.	Reasoning
26.	None
Now, coming to the expression price it is no doubt defined in the Sale of Goods Act as money consideration.	Reasoning
Cash or deferred payment in Cl.	Reasoning
(ff) of S. 2 of the Act satisfied the said definition.	Reasoning
The expression valuable consideration has a wider connotation, but the said expression is also used in the same collocation in the definition of sale in S. 2 (h) of the Act.	Reasoning
The said expression must bear the same meaning in Cl.	Reasoning
(ff) and Cl.	Reasoning
(h) of S. 2 of the Act.	Reasoning
It may also be noticed that in most of the Sales Tax Acts the same three expressions are used.	Reasoning
It has never been argued or decided that the said expression means other than monetary consideration.	Reasoning
This consistent legislative practice cannot be ignored.	Reasoning
The expression valuable consideration takes colour from the preceding expression cash or deferred payment.	Reasoning
If so, it can only mean some other monetary payment in the nature of cash or deferred payment.	Reasoning
We, therefore, hold that Cl.	Reasoning
(ff) of S. 2 of the Act is not void for legislative incompetence.	Reasoning
27.	None
Another argument to invalidate Cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(ff) of S. 2 of the Principal Act may also be noticed.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is said that that clause offends Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
14 of the Constitution on the ground that by reason of the said definition the same goods if purchased by a manufacturer would be taxed but they would not be taxed if purchased by a person other than a manufacturer.	Arguments of Petitioner
But a close scrutiny of Cl.	None
(ff) of S. 2 discloses that there is a reasonable classification in the said definition.	Reasoning
The raw goods purchased by a manufacturer are transformed on manufacture into some other goods and that is the reason why the Legislature taxes the goods before they lose their identity.	Reasoning
But where no manufacturer intervenes there is no such metamorphosis and therefore, the taxable event is the sale.	Reasoning
There is certainly a reasonable relation between the object of the statute and the differences between the two categories of transactions.	Reasoning
28.	None
The next argument turns upon the interpretation of Cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(ff).	Reasoning
The argument is to come under the definition of purchase it is not enough that the acquisition of goods shall be for cash, etc., but that the acquisition shall be for use in the manufacture of goods for sale for cash, etc.	Arguments of Petitioner
On this construction it is argued that the tax levied was excise duty and, therefore, beyond the competence of the State Legislature.	Arguments of Petitioner
The contention is that the tax on the purchase was in connection with the manufacture of goods and, therefore, an excise duty.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is an essential distinction between the two imposts while excise duty is in respect of manufacture of goods, the sales tax is upon the sale of the goods.	Arguments of Petitioner
The question, therefore, is whether under the Act the purchase tax is imposed on the sale of the goods or in connection with the manufacture of goods.	None
The decisions of this Court establish that in older to be an excise duty (a) the levy must he upon goods and (b) the taxable event must be the manufacture or production of goods.see Messrs. Shinde Brothers v. Deputy Commissioner, Raichur, Civil Appeals Nos. 15801586, 1588 and 15901600 of 1966 D 26966 (AIR 1967 SC 1512).	Reasoning
The tax has no nexus with the manufacture of goods.	None
The purpose for which the goods are purchased is only relevant for fixing the taxable event, but the tax is on the purchase of the goods.	Reasoning
That taxable event is fixed before the goods are actually manufactured.	Reasoning
We, therefore, hold that the tax under the Act is a purchase tax and not an excise duty.	Reasoning
29.	None
Then it is contended that while Section 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (Act 74 of 1956) imposes a restriction on the State not to tax at more than one stage, the amending Act by introducing the definition of purchase enables the State to tax the same goods at the purchase point and at the sale point.	Arguments of Petitioner
But this argument misses the point that goods purchased and the goods sold are not identical ones.	None
Manufacture changes the identity.	Reasoning
Therefore, the same goods are not taxed at two stages.	None
30.	None
The last argument is that the said definition only takes in the purchase of goods for use in the manufacture of goods but tax is imposed on the purchase of goods for producing oil.	Arguments of Petitioner
To state it differently, oil is not manufactured out of oilseeds but only produced.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance is placed upon the user of two words in the Act, viz., manufacturing or processing in the proviso to subsection (2) of Section 4 and subsection (5) thereof and the expression edible oils produced in entry of Schedule B to the Act and a contention is raised that the Act itself makes a distinction between manufacturing and processing and manufacture and production and, therefore, oil is not manufactured but only produced from oil seeds.	Arguments of Petitioner
Support is sought to be derived for this argument from the decision of this Court in Union of India v. Delhi Cloth and General Mills, l963 Supp (1) SCR 586 (AIR 1963 SC 791 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
But a perusal of the judgment shows that this Court only held that refined oil produced out of seeds was only an intermediate stage in the manufacture and was, therefore, not liable to excise duty.	Reasoning
On the other hand, the dictionary meaning of manufacture is transform or fashion raw materials into a changed form for use.	Reasoning
When oil is produced out of the seeds the process certainly transforms raw material into different article for use.	Reasoning
We cannot, therefore, accept this contention.	None
31.	None
Now coming to Civil Appeals Nos. 39 to 43 of 1965, the first additional point raised is that when iron scrap is converted into rolled steel it does not involve the process of manufacture.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contented that the said conversion does not involve any process of manufacture, but the scrap is made into a better marketable commodity.	Arguments of Petitioner
Before the High Court this contention was not pressed.	None
That apart, it is clear that scrap iron ingots undergo a vital change in the process of manufacture and are converted into a different commodity, viz., rolled steel sections.	Reasoning
During the process the scrap iron loses its identity and becomes a new marketable commodity.	None
The process is certainly one of manufacture.	None
32.	None
The next argument is that the Act is in conflict with S. 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act, l956.	Arguments of Petitioner
inasmuch as it enables the levy of sales tax at more than one stage.	Arguments of Petitioner
In these and connected appeals we are concerned only with two periods  the first period upto October 31, 1958 and the second period from November 1, 1958 to March 31 1960.	None
It is, therefore, necessary to notice the relevant provisions governing the said two periods.	None
33.	None
The relevant part of S. 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (74 of 1956), as amended by Central Sales Tax (Amendment) Act 16 of 1957, reads thus Every sales tax law of a State shall in so far as it imposes or authorises the imposition of a tax on the sale or purchase of declared goods, be subject to the following restrictions and conditions, namely (a) the tax payable under that law in respect of any sale or purchase of such goods inside the State shall be levied only in respect of the last sale or purchase inside the State and shall not exceed two per cent of the sale or purchase price (b) notwithstanding anything contained in Cl.	None
(a), no tax shall be levied in respect of the last sale or purchase inside the State if the declared goods purchased are intended for sale in the course of interState trade or commerce.	None
Explanation.  	None
The expression last sale or purchase inside the State  means the transaction in which a dealer registered under the sales tax law of the State  (i) sells to or purchases from another such dealer declared goods for use by the purchaser in the manufacture of goods for sale or for use by the purchaser in the execution of any contract or (ii) purchases declared goods from another such dealer for sale to a dealer not registered under the sales tax law of the State or to a consumer in the State.	None
This section was amended by the Central Sales Tax (Amendment) Act 31 of 1958 with effect from October 1, 1958.	None
The relevant part of the amended section reads Every sales tax law of a State shall, in so far as it imposes or authorises the imposition of a tax on the sale or purchase of declared goods, be subject to the following restrictions and conditions, namely (a) the tax payable under that law in respect of any sale or purchase of such goods inside the State shall not exceed two per cent of the sale or purchase price thereof and such tax shall not be levied at more than one stage (b) where a tax has been levied under that law in respect of the sale or purchase inside the State of any declared goods and such goods are sold in the Courts of interstate trade or commerce, the tax so levied shall be refunded to such person in such manner and subject to such conditions as may be provided in any law in force in that State.	None
While S. 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act before the amendment described the stage at which the purchase tax can be levied, S. 15 after the amendment only declares that it cannot be levied at more than one stage.	None
This Court in M s. Modi Spinning and Weaving Mills Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax, Punjab, 19651 SCR 592 at p. 600 (AIR 1965 SC 957 at p. 961), observed as follows The meaning or the intention of Cl.	None
(3) of Art.	None
286 is not to destroy all charging sections in the Sales Tax Acts of the States which are discrepant with S. 15 (a) of the Central Sales Tax Act, but to modify them in accordance therewith.	None
The law of the State is declared to be subject to the restrictions and conditions contained in the law made by Parliament and the rate in the State Act would protanto stand modified.	None
The effect of Art. 286 (3) is now brought out by the second proviso to S. 5 (i).	None
But this proviso is enacted out of abundant caution and revels without it the result was the same.	None
The effect of this judgment is that the stage prescribed under S. 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act before the amendment and the prohibition against taxation at more than one stage contained in the amended section would automatically control the provisions of the Punjab General Sales Tax Act, 1948.	None
With the result upto October 1, 1958, under the State Sales Tax Act a tax could be levied only in respect of purchase of declared goods inside the State and only on the purchase made by a dealer of goods for use by him in the manufacture of goods, and from October 1, 1958, the State can only levy tax at one stage.	None
For the second period the Central Act by its own force did not fix the stage.	None
34.	None
Pursuant to the provisions of S. 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act, before it was amended, Act 7 of 1958 added Cl.	Reasoning
(ff) to S. 2 of the Principal Act fixing the same stage indicated by S. 15 of the Central Act, i.e., the stage when the purchase is made by a dealer for use in the manufacture of goods.	Reasoning
This section was amended by Act 13 of 1959 and Act 24 of 1959.	Reasoning
Under the later amendment in Cl.	Reasoning
(ff) of S. 2 for the words goods for use in the manufacture of goods for sale the words goods specified in Schedule C for use in the manufacture of goods for sale were substituted, that is to say, the stage for taxation prescribed in the earlier definition was amended.	Reasoning
It may be recalled that under the Central Sales Tax Act, as amended, the description of the stage was omitted, but that does not affect the question, for that description is maintained even under the amended Cl.	Reasoning
(ff).It follows from the said discussion that the Punjab General Sales Tax Act, during the crucial period which is the subjectmatter of these appeals, in terms fixed a stage for taxation, i.e., the stage of purchase by a dealer for use in the manufacture of goods.	Reasoning
There are, therefore, no merits in this contention either.	None
35.	None
Now coming to Civil Appeals Nos. 81 of 1965 and 540 of 1965, three additional points are raised by Mr. Desai, namely, (i) by including in the term purchase, read with the definition of dealer, where there is acquisition of cotton through commission agents, the State Legislature has exceeded its legislative power under Entry 54 of List II of Sch. 7 to the Constitution (ii) during the relevant period tax was leviable on cotton without fixing any stage and at more than one stage in violation of S. 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 and (iii) there is no rational basis to single out the three items, namely, cotton, oilseeds and resin for imposition of purchase tax and, therefore, the relevant provisions offend Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
14 of the Constitution.36.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have already held in another context that there are no merits in the second point.	None
37.	None
The first point need not detain us, as in the High Court no specific point we raised in that regard.	None
38.	None
On the third point also no adequate material was placed in the Court below and, therefore, it does not call for our consideration.	Reasoning
39.	None
In the result the appeals are dismissed with costs.	Decision
One hearing fee.	Decision
40.	None
Appeals dismissed.	Decision
