 This, appeal by special leave by defendants Nos. 1 to 3 raises an important question under the Muhammadan Law, which may be stated thusIs a gift by a husband to his minor wife and accepted on her behalf by her mother valid?	Issue
2. It has been, held by the High Court and the courts below that in Muhammadan Law such a gift is invalid.	Facts
The facts leading up to this question may now be stated.	Facts
3.	None
One Mammotty was married to Seinaba and he made a gift of his properties including immovable property to Seinaba on April 7, 1944 by a registered deed.	Facts
Mammotty died on May 3, 1946 without an issue.	Facts
Seinaba also died soon afterwards on February 25, 1947, without leaving an issue.	Facts
At the time of the gift, Seinaba was 15 years 9 months old.	Facts
It appears that Mammotty was ill for a long time and was in hospital and he was discharged uncured a month before the execution of the gift deed and remained in his mother inlaws house afterwards.	Facts
There are conflicting versions about the nature of the disease and a plea was taken in the case that the gift was made in contemplation of death and was voidable.	Facts
This plea need not detain us because the trial Judge and the first Appellate Judge did not accept it.	Facts
4.	None
After the death of Seinaba, the present suit was brought by Kunhamu an elder brother of Mammotty for partition and possession of a 6/16 share of the property which he claimed as an heir under the Muhammadan Law, challenging the gift as invalid.	Facts
To this suit he joined his two sisters as defendants who he submitted were entitled to a 3/16 share each.	Facts
He also submitted that the first three defendants (the appellants) were entitled to the remaining 4/16 share as heirs of Seinaba.	Facts
In other words, Kunhamus contention was that when succession opened out on the death of Mammotty, his widow Seinaba was entitled to the enhanced share of 1/4 as there was no issue, and the remaining 3/4 was divisible between Kunhamu and his two sisters, Kunhamu getting twice as much as each sister.	Facts
These shares according to him were unaffected by the invalid gift in favour of Seinaba and accepted on her behalf by her mother.	Facts
This contention has been accepted and it has been held in this case in all the three courts that a gift by the husband to her minor wife to be valid must be accepted on her behalf by a legal guardian of her property under the Muhammadan Law, that is to say, by the father or his executor or by the grandfather and his executor.	Facts
As Katheesumma the mother of Seinaba was not a legal guardian of the property of Seinaba it was contended by the plaintiff that the gift was void.	Facts
It was admitted on behalf of the plaintiff that Mammotty could have himself taken over possession of the property as the guardian of his minor wife but it was submitted that such was not the gift actually made.	Facts
These contentions raise the question which we have set out earlier in this Judgment.5.	Facts
Mr. S. T. Desai on behalf of the appellants contends that neither express acceptance nor transfer of possession is necessary for the completion of a gift, when the donor is himself the guardian or the defecto guardian or quasi guardian provided there is a real and bona fide intention on the donors part to transfer the ownership of the subject matter of the gift to the donee, and that even a change in the mode of enjoyment is sufficient evidence of such an intention.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further contends that no delivery of possession is necessary in a gift by a husband to his minor wife provided such an intention as above described is clearly manifested.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, the law is satisfied without an apparent change of possession and will presume that the subsequent holding of the properly was on behalf of the minor wife.	Arguments of Petitioner
Lastly, he submits that in any view of the matter when a husband makes a gift to a minor wife and there is no legal guandian of property in existences the gift can be completed by delivery of the property to and acceptance by any person in whose control the minor is at the time.	Arguments of Petitioner
If there is no such person, one can be chosen and appointed by the donor to whom possession can be made over to manifest the intention of departing from the property gifted.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Desai seeks to justify these submissions on authority as well as by deductions from analogous principles of Muhammadan Law relating to gifts to minors which are upheld though accepted by persons other than the four categories of legal guardian.	Arguments of Petitioner
The other side contends that there is no rule of Muhammadan Law which permits such acceptance and that the decision of the High Court is right.	Arguments of Respondent
6.	None
A gift (Hiba) is the conferring of a right of property in something specific without an exchange (ewaz).	None
The word (Hiba) literally means the donation of a thing from which the donee may derive a benefit.	None
The transfer must be immediate and complete (tamlikulain) for the most essential ingredient of Hiba is the declaration I have given.	None
Since Muhammadan Law views the law of gifts as a part of the law of contract there must be a tender (ijab) and an acceptance (qabul) and delivery of possession (qabza).	None
There is, however, no consideration and this fact coupled with the necessity to transfer possession immediately distinguishes gifts from sales.	None
7.	None
In the present case there is a declaration and a tender by the donor Mammotty and as the gift is by a registered deed no question in this behalf can arise.	Reasoning
In so far as Mammotty was concerned there was delivery of possession and the deed also records this fact.	Reasoning
Possession was not delivered to Seinaba but to her mother, the first appellant, and she accepted the gift on behalf of Seinaba.	Reasoning
Mammotty could have made a declaration of gift and taken possession on behalf of his wife who had attained puberty and had lived with him, for after the celebration of marriage a husband can receive a gift in respect of minor wife even though her father be living	Reasoning
(DurrulMukhtar, Vol. III, p. 104 and FatawaiAlamgiri Vol.	None
V, pp. 239240, original text quoted at p. 445 of Institutes of Mussalman Law by Nawab Abdur Rehman).	Reasoning
But Mammotty did not complete his gift in this way.	Reasoning
His gift included immovable properties and it was accepted by the mother who took over possession on behalf of her minor daughter.	Reasoning
A gift to a minor is completed ordinarily by the acceptance of the guardian of the property of the minor (WilayatulMal).	Reasoning
A mother can exercise guardianship of the person of a minor daughter (Hizanat) till the girl attains puberty after which the guardianship of the person is that of the father if the girl is unmarried and that of the husband if she is married and has gone to her husband.	Reasoning
Even under the Guardian and Wards Act, the husband is the guardian of the person after marriage of a girl unless he is considered unfit.	Reasoning
The mother was thus not the guardian of the person of Seinaba.	Reasoning
8.	None
Seinabas mother was also not a guardian of the property of Seinaba.	Reasoning
Muhammadan Law makes a distinction between guardian of the person, guardian of the property and guardian for the purpose of marriage (WilayatulNikah) in the case of minor females.	Reasoning
Guardians of the property are father and grandfather but they include also executors (Wasi).	Reasoning
of these two and even executors of the executors and finally the Kazis executor.	Reasoning
None of these were in existence except perhaps the Civil Court which has taken the place of the Kazi. 9.	None
Now Muhammadan Law of gifts attaches great importance to possession or seisin of the property gifted (KabzulKamil) especially of immovable property.	None
The Hedaya says that seisin in the case of gifts is expressly ordained and Baillie (Dig.	None
p. 508)	None
quoting from the Inayah refers to a Hadis of the Prophet  a gift is not valid unless possessed.	None
In the Hedaya it is stated  Gifts are rendered valid by tender, acceptance and seisin (p. 482) and in the Vikayah gifts are perfected by complete seisin Macnaghten (202).	None
10.	None
The question is whether possession can be given to the wifes mother when the gift is from the husband to his minor wife and when the minors father and fathers father are not alive and there is no executor of the one or the other.	Issue
Is it absolutely necessary that possession of the property must be given to guardian specially to be appointed by the Civil Court ?	Issue
The parties are Hanafis.	None
No direct instance from the authoritative books on Hanafi law can be cited but there is no text prohibiting the giving of possession to the mother.	Reasoning
On the other hand there are other instances from which a deduction by analogy (Raifi 7 ciyas) can be made.	Reasoning
The Hanafi laws as given in the Kafaya recognises the legality of Certain gifts which custom (urf) has accepted.	Reasoning
This is because in deciding questions which are not covered by precedent, Hanafi jurisprudence attaches importance to decisions based on istehsan (liberal construction lit.	Reasoning
producing symmetry) and istislah (public policy).	Reasoning
The Prophet himself approved of Muizz (a Governor of a province who was newly appointed) who said that in the absence of guidance from the Koran and Hadis he would deduce a rule by the exercise of reason.	Reasoning
But to be able to say that a new rule exists and has always existed, there should be no rule against it and it must flow naturally from other established rules and must be based on justice, equity and good conscience and should not be haram (forbidden) or Makruh (reprobated).	Reasoning
It is on these principles that the Mujtahidis and Muftis have allowed certain gifts to stand even though possession of the property was not handed over to one of the stated guardians of the property of the minor.	Reasoning
We shall now refer to some of these cases.	None
11.	None
The rules on the subject may first be recapitulated.	None
It is only actual or constructive possession that completes the gift and registration does not cure the defect nor is a bare declaration in the deed that possession was given to a minor of any avail without the intervention of the guardian of the property unless the minor has reached the years of discretion.	None
If the property is with the donor he must depart from it and the donee must enter upon possession.	None
The strict view was that the donor must not leave behind even a straw belonging to him to show his ownership and possession.	None
Exceptions to these strict rules which are well recognised are gifts by the wife to the husband and by the father to his minor child (Macnaghten page 51 principles 8 and 9).	None
Later it was held that where the donor and donee reside together an overt act only is necessary and this rule applies between husband and wife.	None
In Mohammad Sadiq Ali Khan v. Fakhr Jahan (1932 (59) IA 1) it was held that even mutation of names is not necessary if the deed declares that possession is delivered and the deed is handed to the wife.	None
A similar extension took place in cases of gifts by a guardian to his minor Ward (Wilson Digest of Anglo Muhammadan Law, 6th Edn., p. 328).	None
In the case of a gift to an orphan minor the rule was relaxed in this wayIf a fatherless child be under charge of his mother, and she takes possession of a gift made to him, it is valid.	None
The same rule also holds with respect to a stranger who has charge of the orphan.	None
Hedaya, p. 484.	None
See also Baillie, p. 539	None
(Lahore Edn.)	None
In the case of the absence of the guardian (GheebutiMoonqutaa) the commentators agree that in a gift by the mother, her possession after gift does not render it invalid.	None
Thus also brother and paternal uncle in the absence of the father are included in the list of persons who can take possession on behalf of a minor who is in their charge Durrul Mukhtar, Vol. IV, p. 512 (Cairo Edn.).	None
In RaddulMukhtar it is said It is laid down in the Barjindi There is a difference of opinion, where possession has been taken by one, who has it (the child) in his charge when the father is present.	None
It is said, it is not valid and the correct opinion is that it is valid.	None
Vol. IV, p. 513	None
(Cairo Edn.)	None
In the BahralRaiq, Vol. VII, p. 314 (Edn. Cairo)The rule is not restricted to mother and stranger but means that every relation excepting the father, the grandfather and their executors is like the mother.	None
The gift becomes complete by their taking possession if the infant is in their charge otherwise not.	None
In Fatawai Kazikhan, Vol. IV, p. 289	None
(Lucknow Edn.), the passage quoted above from RaddulMukhtar is to be found and the same passage is also to be found in Fatawai Alamgiri, Vol. IV, p. 548	None
(Cairo Edn.)	None
All these passages can be seen in the lectures on Moslem Legal Institutions by Dr. AbdullahalMamun Suhrawardy.	None
The rule about possession is relaxed in certain circumstances of which the following passage from the Hedaya, p. 484 mentions someIt is lawful for a husband to take possession of anything given to his wife, being an infant, provided she has been sent from her fathers house to his and this although the father be present, because he is held, by implication, to have resigned the management of her concerns to the husband.	None
It is otherwise where she has not been sent from her fathers house, because then the father is not held to have resigned the management of her concerns.	None
It is also otherwise with respect to a mother or any others having charge of her because they are not entitled to possess themselves of a gift in her behalf, unless the father be dead, or absent and his place of residence unknown for their power is in virtue of necessity, and not from any supposed authority and this necessity cannot exist whilst the father is present.	None
Macnaghten quotes the same rule at p. 225 and at page 230 is given a list of other writers who have subscribed to these liberal views.	None
12.	None
The above views have also been incorporated in their text books by the modern writers on Muhammadan Law.	None
(See Mullas Principles of Muhammadan Law, 14th Edn., pp. 139, 142, 144 and 146, Tyabjis Muhammadan Law, 3rd Edn., pp. 430435, ss, 397400, Amir Alis Muhammadan Law, Vol.	None
I, pp. 130131).	None
13.	None
The principles have further been applied in some decisions of the High Courts in India.	None
In Nabi Sab v. Papiah (AIR 1915 Mad.	None
p. 972)	None
it was held that gift did not necessarily fail merely because possession was not handed over to the minors father or guardian and the donor could nominate a person to accept the gift on behalf of the minor.	None
It was pointed out that the Muhammadan Law of gifts, though strict could not be taken to be made up of unmeaning technicalities.	None
A similar view was expressed in Nawab Jan v Safiur Rahman (AIR 1918 Cal.	None
p. 786).	None
These cases were followed recently in Munni Bai and Another v Abdul Gani (AIR 1959 MP p. 225) where it was held that when a document embodying the intention of the donor was delivered to the minor possessing discretion and accepted by her it amounted to acceptance of gift.	None
It was further pointed out that all that was needed was that the donor must evince an immediate and bona fide intention to make the gift and to complete it by some significant overt act.	None
See also Mst.	None
Fatma v Mst.	None
Autun (AIR 1944 Sind p. 195), Mst. Aiizi and Another Sona Mir (AIR 1962 J K p. 4) and Mammad and Others v Kunhali and Others (1962 KLJ 351 ).	None
14.	None
In Md.	None
Abdul Gyani v Mt. Faker Jahan (1922 (49) IA p. 195 at p. 209)	None
it was held by the Judicial Committee as followsIn considering what is the Muhammadan Law on the subject of gift, intervivos their Lordships have to bear in mind that when the old and admittedly authoritative texts of Muhammadan Law were promulgated there were not in the contemplation of any one, any Transfer of Property Acts, any Registration Acts, any Revenue Courts to record transfers of the possession of land, or any zamindari estates large or small, and that it could not have been intended to lay down for all time what should alone be the evidence that titles to lands had passed.	None
The object of the Muhammadan Law as to gifts apparently was to prevent disputes as to whether the donor and the donee intended at the time that the title to the property should pass from the donor to the donee and that the handing over by the donor and the acceptance by the donee of the property should be good evidence that the property had been given by the donor and had been accepted by the donee as a gift.	None
Later in Mohamad Sadiq Ali Khan v Fakhr Jahan Begum (1932 (59) IA 1) it was held by the Privy Council that at least between husband and wife Muhammadan Law did not require an actual vacation by the husband and an actual taking possession by the wife.	None
In the opinion of the Judicial Committee the declaration made by the husband followed by the handing over of the deed was sufficient to establish the transfer of possession.	None
15.	None
These cases show that the strict rule of Muhammadan Law about giving possession to one of the stated guardians of the minor is not a condition of its validity in certain cases.	Reasoning
One such case is gift by the husband to his wife and another where there is gift to a minor who has no guardian of the property in existence.	Reasoning
In such cases the gift through the mother is a valid gift.	Reasoning
The Respondents relied upon two cases reported in Suna Mia v S. A. S. Pillai (1932 (11) Rang., p. 109) where gift to a minor through the mother was considered invalid.	Arguments of Respondent
And Musa miye and Another v Kadar Bux (ILR 52 Bom. 316, P. C.) where a gift by a grand father to his minor grandsons when the father was alive, without delivery of possession to the father, was held to be invalid.	Arguments of Respondent
Both these cases involve gifts in favour of minors whose fathers were alive and competent.	None
They are distinguishable from those cases in which there is no guardian of the property to accept the gift and the minor is within the care either of the mother or of other near relative or even a stranger.	Reasoning
In such cases the benefit to the minor and the completion of the gift for his benefit is the sole consideration.	Reasoning
As we have shown above there is good authority for these propositions in the ancient and Modern books of Muhammadan Law and in decided cases of undoubted authority.	Reasoning
16.	None
In our Judgment the gift in the present case was a valid gift.	Reasoning
Mammotty was living at the time of the gift in the house of his mother inlaw and was probably a very sick person though not in Marzulmaut.	Reasoning
His minor wife who had attained discretion was capable under Muhammadan Law to accept the gift, was living at her mothers house and in her care where the husband was also residing.	Reasoning
The intention to make the gift was clear and manifest because it was made by a deed which was registered and handed over by Mammotty to his mother inlaw and accepted by her on behalf of the minor.	Reasoning
There can be no question that there was a complete intention to divest ownership on the part of Mammotty and to transfer the property to the donee.	Reasoning
If Mammotty had handed over the deed to his wife, the gift would have been complete under Muhatnmadan Law and it seems impossible to hold that by handing over the deed to his mother inlaw, in whose charge his wife was during his illness and afterwards Mammotty did not complete the gift.	Reasoning
In our opinion both on texts and authorities such a gift must be accepted as valid and complete.	Reasoning
The appeal therefore succeeds.	Decision
The Judgment of the High Court and of the Courts below are set aside and the suit of the plaintiff is ordered to be dismissed with costs throughout.	Decision
