 MISRA, J.1.	None
The present appeal by certificate is directed against the judgment of the High Court of Gauhati dated 23rd of February, 1982 dismissing the petition under Art.	Issue
226 of the Constitution challenging the order of detention of the appellantThe District Magistrate	None
, Darrang passed an order of detention on 3rd of January, 1982 against the appellant under S. 3(3) of the National Security Act, 1980.	Facts
The order of detention along with the grounds was supplied to the appellant on the same day, that is, on 3rd of January, 1982.	Facts
The appellant was also arrested on the same day.	Facts
He made a representation on the 9th of January, 1982 through the Superintendent of Special Jail who forwarded the same to the Government on 10th of January, 1982.	Facts
The State Government received the same on 11th of January, 1982 and it was rejected on 13th of January, 19822.	Facts
The order of detention was challenged by the appellant on two grounds (1) that the grounds of detention were vague and (2) that the facts narrated in the grounds related to law and order situation and not to public order.	Facts
The high Court repelled both the grounds and dismissed the writ petition by its order dt. 23rd of February, 1982.	Facts
The High Court, however, granted a certificate for leave to appeal to this Court3.	Facts
Before dealing with the contentions in this case on behalf of the parties it will be appropriate at this stage to refer to the grounds of detention which were served on the appellant1.	None
Sri Dhananjoy Das, aged about 50 is the President of Purbanchalia Lok Parishad, of Tezpur Unit.	None
He is a contractor by profession.	None
Sri Das has been playing a leading part in the current agitation on foreigners issue in collaboration with other active agitators who are leaders of AASU, Karmachari Parishad and Gana Sangram Parishad, by organising bundhs, noncooperation programme inciting people to violate law from time to time.	None
Such activities have disturbed peaceful, tolerant and harmonious life of societyIn connection with the programme of Rasta Roko commencing from 0/50 hrs.	None
of 311281 to 1700 hrs.	None
of 1182 Sri Das	None
in collaboration with others like Nabab Shahjamal, Biren Baishya etc. mobilised thousands of people from Parbatia, and other neighbouring areas of the town to give obstructions to motor vehicles on 311281 and railway traffic on 1182.	None
At the instigation of Sri Das the people came in large numbers violating prohibitory orders.	None
On 1182 the crowd was instigated by him and aforesaid associates to pelt stones, brickbats etc. on police personnel on duty.	None
This led to greater violence in which railway slippers were burnt, and driver of fire brigade was shot at.	None
Ultimately firing was resorted to and three persons died of bullet injuryOn 2182, when the whole Tezpur Town was under curfew, Sri Das along with his other associates mobilised people of Parbatia etc. and led a procession of thousands of people through curfewbound areas raising slogans instigating people to violate curfew.	None
This crowd had to be dispersed by use of forceSuch activities of Sri Dhananjoy Das are prejudicial to the interest of maintenance of public order.	None
It is essential therefore that in order to prevent him from indulging in such like prejudicial acts, Sri Das is detained under National Security Act.4.	None
Shri Rangarajan, counsel for the appellant, seriously contended that the first paragraph of the grounds is so vague that the order of detention must be quashed on this ground alone.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri A. M. Majumdar, Advocate General of Assam, on the other hand has contended that the 1st paragraph of the grounds was only a prelude or introductory and does not deal with the grounds on which the District Magistrate had his subjective satisfaction for passing the order of detention5.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no doubt that if the first paragraph of the grounds constitute the grounds of detention, it is vague and the order of detention must be quashed on the ground of vagueness with regard to the statement contained therein.	Reasoning
Therefore, the main question for consideration in this case is whether the first paragraph of the grounds is merely introductory or a preamble or a prelude.	Reasoning
Shri Rangarajan contends that there could be no prelude or preamble to the grounds.	Reasoning
Article 22(5) of the Constitution provides for supplying the grounds of detention.	Reasoning
In support of his contention he placed reliance on Mohd.	None
Yousuf Rather v. State of J. and K. 1979 4 SCC 270 (AIR 1979 SC 1925 ).	None
In that case Dr. Singhvi for the State strenuously submitted that the first paragraph of the grounds supplied to the petitioner was of an introductory nature, that paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5 referred to the events which furnished the background and that the penultimate paragraph alone contained the grounds of detention as such.	None
He submitted that it was permissible to separate the introduction and the recital of events constituting the background from the grounds of detention and if that was done it would be apparent that the order of detention suffered from no infirmity.	None
He sought to draw support for his submission from the decision in Naresh Chandra Ganguli v. State of West Bengal, 1960 1	None
SCR 411 (AIR 1959 SC 1335 ).	None
In that case Sections 3 and 7 of the Preventive Detention Act 1950 were the Subjectmatter or consideration and this Court held that the two sections read together contemplate that the copy of the order passed by the detaining authority under S. 3(2) of the Act to be served on the detenu should contain, (1) a preamble reciting in terms one or more of the subclauses of Clauses (a) and (b) of S. 3(1) as its object or objects, (2) the grounds contemplated by S. 7, namely, the conclusions of fact, which led to the passing of the order of detention, informing the detenu as to why he was detained, and (3) particulars, if and where necessary, but not those referred to in subss.	None
(3) and (4) of S. 3 of the Act.	None
This case thus contemplated of a preamble or introductory part in the grounds of detention6.	None
Shri Rangarajan for the appellant, however, contended that the view taken in N. C. Gangulis case (AIR 1959 SC 1335 ) (supra) does not hold the field and he referred to the following observations made by Chinnappa Reddy J. in Mohd.	None
Yousuf Rathers case (AIR 1979 SC 1925 at pp. 1931 1932) (supra)It is impossible to agree with the submission of Dr. Singhvi.	None
The annexure to the order of detention detailing the grounds of detention has been fully extracted by my learned brother Shinghal, J. We are unable to see how factual allegations such as those contained in the paragraphs 1 to 5 of the grounds of detention can be said to be merely introductory or as constituting the background.	None
In Naresh Chandra Ganguli v. State of W.B. what was read by the Supreme Court as the preamble was the recital in terms of S. 3(1) clauses (a) and (b) of the Preventive Detention Act, namely that the detenu was being detained in pursuance of a detention order made in exercise of the power conferred by S. 3 of the Preventive Detention Act on the ground that the detenu was acting in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order as evidenced by the particulars given thereafter.	None
The particulars given in the subsequent paragraphs, the Court said, constituted the grounds.	None
We do not understand Naresh Chandra Ganguli v. State of W.B. as laying down that it is permissible to dissect or trisect the grounds of detention into introduction, background and grounds as such.	None
There is no warrant for any such divisionThe distinction made in Naresh Chandra Gangulis case between the preamble, meaning thereby the recital in terms of the statutory provision and the grounds meaning thereby the conclusions of fact which led to the passing of the order of detention does not justify any distinction being made between introductory facts, background facts, and grounds as such.	None
All allegations of fact which have led to the passing of the order of detention are grounds of detention.	None
If such allegations are irrelevant or vague the detenu is entitled to be released.	None
Shinghal, J., with whom Sarkaria, J. concurred, however, did not go to the extent of saying that there cannot be a preamble or introduction to the grounds.	None
According to the counsel for the appellant the observations made by Chinnappa Reddy, J. would be taken to be the observations made by the Full Court inasmuch as he agreed with the view expressed by Sarkaria and Shinghal, JJ7.	None
Be that as it may, the observations referred to above do not indicate that there can be no preamble or introductory para in the grounds of detention.	Reasoning
There is no bar to have introductory paragraphs in the grounds.	Reasoning
The observations only mean all allegations of facts which have led to the passing of the order of detention will form part of the grounds of detention.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, difficult to accept the contention that there could be no introductory para in the grounds8.	None
Whether a particular paragraph in the grounds amounts only to a preamble or introduction is to be determined on the facts and circumstances of each case and it is open to the Court to come to it is own conclusion whether that paragraph is only an introductory para or contains the grounds on the basis of which the detaining authority had the subjective satisfaction for passing the order of detention9.	None
Preamble has been defined in the Oxford English Dictionary to mean a preliminary statement in speech or writing an introductory paragraph, section, or clause a preface, prologue, introduction.	None
It has further been defined there as an introductory paragraph or part in a statute, deed, or other document setting forth the ground and intention of it.	None
The preamble thus betokens that which followsThe first part of paragraph 1 of the order of detention in the instant case is admittedly introductory where it saysSri Dhananjoy Das, aged about 50 years is the President of Purbanchalia Lok Parishad, Tezpur Unit.	None
He is a contractor by profession.	None
The dispute is about the nature of the latter part of paragraph 1.	None
It saysSri Das has been playing a leading part in the current agitation on foreigners issue in collaboration with other active agitators who are leaders of AASU Karmachari Parishad Gana Sangram Parishad, by organising bundhs, noncooperation programme, inciting people to violate law from time to time.	None
Such activities have disturbed peaceful, tolerant and harmonious life of society.	None
Paragraphs 2 and 3 of the grounds of detention deal with specific instances of the activities of the appellant.	Reasoning
The penultimate paragraph 4 of the grounds saysSuch activities of Sri Dhananjoy Das are prejudicial to the interest of maintenance of public order.	None
Significance must be attached to the language used in the last sentence of the 1st paragraph and the 1st sentence of the last paragraph, the former saysSuch activities have disturbed peaceful, tolerant and harmonious life of society.	None
While the latter i.e., the 1st sentence of the last paragraph 4 states thatSuch activities of Sri Dhananjoy Das are prejudicial to the interest of maintenance of public order.	None
The tenor of the document indicates that the appellant has been playing a leading part in the current agitation on foreigners issue in collaboration with other active agitators who are leaders of AASU, Karmachari Parishad and Gana Sangram Parishad by organising bundhs, noncooperation programme.	None
Inciting people to violate law from time to time.	None
It only indicates that the three organisations have been taking part in the current agitation on foreigners issue in the manner stipulated in the first paragraph, in which the appellant has also been playing a leading part.	None
Paragraphs 2 and 3 of the grounds deal with specific part attributed to the appellant on specific days and at specific places.	None
That is why the first sentence of the last paragraph 4 stipulates such activities of Sri Dhananjoy Das are prejudicial to the interests of maintenance of public order and the appellant was called upon to make a representation against the allegations made against him in paragraphs 2 and 3 of the grounds.	None
The first paragraph only contemplates that the various organisations have been taking part in the current agitation against the foreigners issue in the various modes enumerated therein11.	None
Shri Rangarajan sought to derive support for his contention from averments made in paragraph 5 of the counteraffidavit filed by the District Magistrate on 24th of January 1982 wherein it has been stated that ground No. 1 is clear, specific and eloquent which provided all the opportunities to the detenu to submit his representation.	None
This averment was in reply to the allegation made in the writ petition that paragraph 1 of the grounds was vague and indefinite.	None
Therefore, on the own showing of the District Magistrate, he treated paragraph 1 as constituting on of the grounds of detention.	None
Later on the sought permission of the Court to file a supplementary affidavit, which was allowed.	None
In the supplementary affidavit he averred that paragraph 1 of the grounds constitute only a preamble or introductory para and the grounds on which he had subjective satisfaction for passing the order of detention against the appellant were contained in paragraphs 2 and 3 of the grounds of detention.	None
In support of the application for permission to file a supplementary affidavit by way of clarification he relied on the parawise comments made by him which he had sent to the Government under his memo.	None
No. DCM.	Arguments of Respondent
49/81/29 dated 15th of January 1982 with a copy to the Senior Government Advocate.	None
While dealing with paragraphs 9 and 10 of the petition the District Magistrate had commented that para 1 of the grounds of detention is of the nature of introduction and para 4 is of the nature of conclusion.	None
It was also submitted for the appellant that the District Magistrate having once admitted in the counteraffidavit that para 1 of the grounds of detention constitutes grounds of detention he could not subsequently turn turtle and say that it was only by way of introduction or preamble and he could not have been allowed to change his position by filing a supplementary affidavit.	None
The order of detention, said the counsel, is conclusive as to the state of mind of the person who made it and that no extraneous evidence can be taken into consideration to prove that state of mind and hence any additional evidence such as the note made by the District Magistrate was not admissible to prove that the rule has been complied with.	None
Such evidence could not have been given by the District Magistrate in view of the earlier affidavit dated 24th of January 1982 expressly saying that paragraph 1 is the ground which is clear, specific and eloquent.	None
In support of his contention he placed reliance on Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia v. State of Bihar, 1966 1	None
SCR 709 (AIR 1966 SC 940 )12.	None
The Advocate General of Assam, on the other hand, has contended that the counteraffidavit filed earlier by the District Magistrate was just in reply to the averments made in the writ petition and therein it was stated that ground No. 1 of the grounds of detention was vague and indefinite and in reply thereto the District Magistrate denied the vagueness of that ground.	None
The District Magistrate, however, has clarified the position in his parawise comments which he had sent to the Government by memo.	Arguments of Respondent
No. DCM.	Arguments of Respondent
49/81/29 dated 15th of January, 1982.	Arguments of Respondent
He clarified the position that paragraph 1 of the grounds of detention was only a preamble or introduction.	Arguments of Respondent
This was done by him long before the filing of the writ petition itself and, therefore, the supplementary affidavit filed by him clarifying the position cannot be said to be an afterthought and the High Court accepted the position that the District Magistrate did not take into consideration the statement of facts made in paragraph 1 of the grounds of detention13.	Arguments of Respondent
The grounds of detention read as a whole leave no room for doubt that paragraph 1 of the grounds of detention was only by way of introduction or as a preamble.	Reasoning
In substance, it only indicates the modus operandi adopted by the various organisations to the current agitation on foreigners issue in Assam.	Reasoning
The 2nd and 3rd paragraphs of the grounds of detention allege a specific part played by the appellant in that agitation.	Reasoning
On a perusal of grounds of detention as a whole we are satisfied that the view taken by the High Court that the 1st paragraph of the grounds of detention was only a preamble, prelude, or introductory para is correct.	Reasoning
If this be the position them the vagueness in the 1st paragraph cannot be made a ground of attack on the impugned order14.	Reasoning
The Advocate General feebly sought to contend that assuming that 1st paragraph of the grounds also constituted the grounds for detention there was no vagueness inasmuch as the material facts detailed in paragraphs 2 and 3 were sufficient to enable the appellant to make an effective representation.	Reasoning
For example, bundh referred to in paragraph 1 has been detailed in the 2nd paragraph, noncooperation referred to in paragraph 1 has also been clarified by necessary implication in para 2 inasmuch as Rasta Roko programme or creating obstacles in the roads necessarily helped the noncooperation by preventing people from attending their offices or performing their statutory duties15.	Reasoning
In the view that we have taken that the 1st paragraph of the grounds is only introductory it is not necessary to deal with this aspect of the matter at length16.	Reasoning
This takes us to the vagueness in paragraphs 2 and 3 of the grounds of detention which specifically refer to the part played by the appellant in the agitation on specific dates17.	Reasoning
In ground No. 2 it has not been mentioned that Nabab Shahjamal and Biren Baishya etc. were leaders or even connected with any of the organisations mentioned in ground No. 1.	None
It was not even stated that all the instances referred to took place in Tezpur town.	None
It has also not been stated what were exactly the acts of instigation by the detenu.	None
The place and the manner of inciting people who came in large numbers to violate prohibitory orders or to pelt stones has not been mentioned18.	None
In ground No. 3 no particulars were given about when the order of curfew was promulgated and by whom.	None
It is only baldly stated that the detenu with his other associates mobilised people of Parbatia etc.	None
The people assemble had come from other places.	None
These places were not mentioned.	None
None of the details of the slogans by way of instigating people to violate the curfew had been mentioned and thus grounds Nos. 2 and 3 also suffer from vagueness and this was quite sufficient to vitiate the proceedings19.	None
The law is by now well settled that a detenu has two rights under Art.	None
22(5) of the Constitution (1) to be informed, as soon as may be, of the grounds on which the order of detention is made, that is, the grounds which led to the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority, and (2) to be afforded the earliest opportunity of making a representation against the order of detention, that is, to be furnished with sufficient particulars to enable him to make a representation which on being considered may obtain relief to him.	None
The inclusion of an irrelevant or nonexistent ground, among other relevant grounds is an infringement of the first of the rights and the inclusion of an obscure or vague ground among other clear and definite grounds is an infringement of the second of the rights.	None
Therefore in this view of the legal position if the grounds are vague and indefinite that would amount to an infringement of the second right of the appellant.	None
It is by virtue of the second right that the detaining authority has to supply the material facts on the basis of which subjective satisfaction was derived for passing the order of detention and this is how the facts from which the inference is drawn also become a part and parcel of the grounds.	None
Therefore, the important question is whether grounds Nos. 2 and 3 are so vague as to infringe the second right of the appellant conferred by Art. 22(5) of the Constitution20.	None
Shri S. Rangarajan referred to Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia v. State of Bihar, 1966 1	None
SCR 709 (AIR 1966 SC 740 ) (supra) wherein the Constitution Bench heldIf on its face an order of detention is in terms of the rule, ordinarily, a court is bound to stay its hands and uphold the order.	None
When an order is on the face of it not in terms of the rule, a court cannot enter into an investigation whether the order of detention was in fact in terms of the rule.	None
So the State cannot be heard to say or prove that an order was in fact made to prevent acts prejudicial to public order though the order does not say so The order is conclusive as to the state of the mind of the person who made it and no evidence is admissible to prove that state of mind.	None
Extraneous evidence such as the not made by the District Magistrate was not admissible to prove that the rule has been complied with.21.	None
There is no denying the fact that the ground of detention must be in existence on the date when the order was passed and the authority concerned has to be satisfied about the grounds of detention on the date of the order and the satisfaction of the detaining authority must be clear on the face of it from the grounds of detention and no extraneous evidence is admissible to prove what actually weighed with the detaining authority while passing the order of detention22.	None
It must, however, be kept in mind that it is not what a party chose to put a gloss on the grounds of detention but it is the document itself which will be taken to be the proof of what weighed with the detaining authority while passing the order of detention and it is for the Court to decide whether certain paragraphs of the grounds of detention were only by way of introduction or preamble or constitute the grounds of detention itself.	Reasoning
As observed earlier, we have meticulously perused the grounds of detention and the tenor of the document read as a whole indicates that the 1st paragraph of the grounds of detention is only by way of introduction or preamble23.	Reasoning
Before dealing with this question of vagueness about paragraphs Nos. 2 3 of the grounds we would like to deal with certain authorities which have been cited on behalf of the appellant to indicate what constitutes the grounds of detention.	Reasoning
In the State of Bombay v. Atma Ram Sridhar Vaidya, 1951 SCR 167 (AIR 1951 SC 157 )	None
this Court heldClause (5) of Art.	None
22 confers two rights on the detenu, namely, first, a right to be informed of the grounds on which the order of detention has been made, and secondly, to be afforded the earliest opportunity to make a representation against the order and though these rights are linked together they are two distinct rights.	None
If grounds which have a rational connection with the objects mentioned in S. 3 are supplied, the first condition is complied with.	None
But the right to make a representation implies that the detenu should have information so as to enable him to make a representation, and if the grounds supplied are not sufficient to enable the detenu to make a representation, he can rely on the second right.	None
He may if he likes ask for further particulars which will enable him to make a representation.	None
On an infringement of either of these two rights the detained person has a right to approach the court, and even if an infringement of the second right under Art. 22(5) is alone established he is entitled to be released.24.	None
As observed earlier it is on account of the second right that it becomes necessary to give facts on which the conclusion is based.	None
By now it is well settled that the grounds of detention constitute the facts also on which the conclusion has been drawn25.	None
The learned counsel for the appellant cited various cases by way of example in which in somewhat similar situation the grounds of detention were branded as vague.	None
In Chaju Ram v. State of J. K., 1970 1 SCC 536 (AIR 1971 SC 263 )	None
the grounds charged the detenu with having conspired with some leaders of Democratic Conference and having incited landless people of R. S. Pura Tehsil to forcible occupy the land comprised in Nandpur Mechanised Farm and to have persuaded them to resist violently any attempt to evict them.	None
No details of the leaders of the conference or of the persons incited or the dates on which he conspired or incited the squatters or the time when such conference took place were mentioned.	None
In the facts and circumstances of the case it was held by this CourtIt would be impossible for anybody to make a representation against such grounds.	None
These grounds, on the authorities of this Court, too numerous to be cited here, must be held to be vague.26.	None
The next case cited was that of Gopal Bauri v. District Magistrate, Burdwan, 1975 1 SCC 522 (AIR 1975 SC 781 ).	None
The grounds which had been furnished to the detenu in that case described the occurrences of two successive days, namely, March 20, and 21, 1973.	None
Ground No. 1 charged the detenu with regard to the incidence of March 20, 1973 that he with other associates committed theft of ball bearings and wheels of the bucket carriages of the ropeway lines near Harishpur village and the supply of sand to the collieries was suspended.	None
Likewise, about the incidence of March 21, 1973 the second ground charged the detenu that he with other associates committed theft of ball bearings and wheels of the bucket carriages from the ropesay lines at Palashbon village causing suspension of supply of sand to the collieries.	None
The detenu was not communicated the names of the particular associates from whose possession recovery of the stolen articles, the subject matter of thefts disclosed in the two grounds, was made and on the facts and circumstances of that case it was found that the grounds of detention were vague.27.	None
In Dr. Ram Krishan Bhardwaj v. State of Delhi, 1953 SCR 708 (AIR 1953 SC 318 ) one of the grounds of detention mentioned was thatYou have been organising the movement (Paraja Parishad Movement) by enrolling volunteers among the refugees in your capacity as President of the Refugee Association of Bara Hindu Rao.	None
This ground was held to be vague and even though the other grounds were not vague, the detention was held to be not in accordance with the procedure established by law and was therefore illegal28.	None
In Bhupen Deka v. State of Assam, 1981 Cri LJ 1743 (Gauhati) only ground No. 1 was germane to the supplies and services essential to the community.	None
The other grounds did not pertain to maintenance of supplies and services essential to the community.	None
The Court on the facts held that (para 3) there is nothing in the ground to show disclosure of and material fact as to when, where, how and in what manner the bundhs, picketings, satyagraha had taken place and how and in what manner they affected the supplies and services essential to the community.	None
There is not a single specific date or time of the bundhs, picketings, satyagraha nor is there any indication as to how the supplies and services essential to the community were affected.	None
In the circumstances the order of detention was declared invalid and void on the ground of vagueness29.	None
Shri Rangarajan also referred to Kamla Kanhaiyalal v. State of Maharashtra, 1981 1 SCC 748 (AIR 1981 SC 814 ) to contend that this case has added new dimension to various features of and concept of liberty enshrined in Art. 21.	None
In the above case this Court observedThis Court in Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India, 1978 2 SCR 621 (AIR 1978 SC 597 ) has widened the horizon of Article 21 and added new dimensions to various features of and concept of liberty enshrined in Article 21.	None
In view of the decision in the aforesaid case.	None
Art. 22(5) of the Constitution assumes a new complexion and has to be construed liberally and meaningfully so as to permit the legislature to impose the minimum possible curbs on the precious rights of a citizen, by virtue of preventive detention.	None
If a procedure under Art. 21 has to be reasonable, fir and just, then the words effective representation appearing in Art. 22(5) must be construed so as to provide a real and meaningful opportunity to the detenu to explain his case to the detaining authority in his representation.	None
If the words effective representation are interpreted in an artificial or fanciful manner, then it would defeat the very object not only of Art. 22(5) but also of Art. 21 of the Constitution.30.	None
The Advocate General of Assam, however, on the other hand cited cases in which in similar situations the grounds were not branded as vague.	None
He referred to Naresh Chandra Ganguli v. State of West Bengal, (AIR 1959 SC 1335 )	None
(supra).	None
In that case the argument was that the grounds contained in paragraph 4 were vague and indefinite and not enabling the person detained to make his representation.	None
It appeared from the said paragraph that the detenu in that case intended to proceed to Delhi on October 9, 1958 with a view to instigate plans against the personal security of the Prime Minister.	None
The place, date and purpose of the planned nefarious activities had all been stated as clearly as could be expected.	None
The argument, however, was that it was necessary to state the details of the plans hatched in Delhi.	None
This Court dealing with the point observedThere are several answers to this contention.	None
Paragraph 4 has reference to something which was apprehended but lay in the womb of the future.	None
From the nature of the fact that it was not an event which had already happened but what was apprehended to be in the contemplation of the detenu and his associates, if any, no further details of the plan could possibly be disclosed.	None
Reliance was placed in that case on the State of Bombay v. Atma Ram Sridhar Vaidya (AIR 1951 SC 157 ) (supra) wherein it was held that vagueness is a relative term.	None
It was observed furtherIts meaning must vary with the facts and circumstances of each case.	None
What may be said to be vague in one case may not be so in another, and it could not be asserted as a general rule that a ground is necessarily vague if the only answer of the detained person can be to deny it.	None
If the statement of facts is capable of being clearly understood and is sufficiently definite to enable the detained person to make his representation, it cannot be said that it is vague.	None
Further, it cannot be denied that particulars of what has taken place, can be more definitely stated than those of events which are yet in the offing.	None
In the very nature of things, the main object of the Act is to prevent persons from doing something which comes within the purview of any one of the subclauses of Clause (a) of S. 3(1) of the Act.31.	None
Next reliance was placed on Masood Alam v. Union of India, 1973 3 SCR 268 (AIR 1973 SC 897 ).	None
In this case also the order of detention was challenged on the ground of vagueness of some of the grounds.	Facts
Reference was specially made to the last two lines of ground No. 1 relating to the collection of Rs. 700/ for Youth Majlis and to grounds Nos. 2 and 3.	None
In the facts and circumstances of the case this Court heldIf the last two lines are read, as they should be, along with the remaining contents of ground No. 1 it cannot be said that the petitioner was unable to tender his explanation with respect to the allegation contained therein.	None
Quite clearly, the exact point of time and the people from whom small amounts were collected could not possibly be started with precision.	None
Grounds Nos. 2 and 3, as is clear, contain precise details in the various clauses enumerated therein.	None
According to ground No. 2 the petitioner has extraterritorial loyalties and, therefore, he is a threat to security of India and this conclusion is arrived at on the basis of the instances started in Clauses (a) to (b) which are precise and definite.	None
Similarly, ground No. 3 says that the petitioner has been exciting communal feelings among the Muslims in India and contributing to communal disturbances in Aligarh city and this conclusion is based on instances stated in Clauses (a) to (b) which are precise and definite.	None
The instances under both these grounds are relevant and germane to the object which is sought to be achieved by S. 3 of the Act for the purpose of detaining persons who are likely to act in manner prejudicial to the security of the State or maintenance of public order.32.	None
State of Bombay v. Atma Ram Sridhar Vaidya (AIR 1951 SC 157 ) (supra) was sought to be distinguished by the Advocate General and referred to the following observations made by the CourtThis however does not mean that all facts leading to the conclusion mentioned in the grounds must be conveyed to the detained person at the same time the grounds are conveyed to him.	None
The facts on which the conclusion mentioned in the grounds are based must be available to the Government, but there may be cases where there is delay or difficulty in collecting the exact date or it may not be convenient to set out all the facts in the first communication.	None
If the second communication contains no further conclusion of fact from facts, but only furnishes all or some of the fats on which the first mentioned conclusion was founded it is obvious that no fresh ground for which the order of detention was made is being furnished to the detained person by the second communication which follows sometime after the first communication.33.	None
Next reliance was placed on Bidya Deb Barma v. District Magistrate, Tripura, Agartala, 1969 1	None
SCR 562 (AIR 1969 SC 323 ).	None
In that case also the impugned order was challenged on the ground of vagueness inasmuch as the ground did not give any details since no particulars of time, place and circumstances had been mentioned and relevant and irrelevant matters had also been included.	None
In the circumstances of the case this Court negatived the contention and observedThe grounds begin by stating generally what the activities were.	None
They consisted of instigation of tribal people to practise jhuming and preventing the authorities from delivering paddy to Government under the procurement schemes.	None
This instigation it is said was through mass and secret meetings and resulted in violent resistance to Government.	None
Having said this the grounds then specify the places where and the dates on which the meetings were held and the date on which and place at which the resistance took place.	None
In our judgment more detailed information was not necessary to give the detenus an opportunity to make their representations.34.	None
In Vakil Singh v. State of J. K. AIR 1974 SC 2337 this Court observedGrounds within the contemplation of S. 8(1) of the Act means materials on which the order of detention is primarily based.	None
Apart from conclusions of facts grounds have a factual constituent, also.	None
They must contain the pith and substance of primary facts but not subsidiary facts or evidential details.	None
This requirement as to the communication of all essential constituents of grounds was complied with in the present case.	None
The basic facts, as distinguished from factual details, were incorporated in the material communicated to the detenu.	None
He was told the name of the notorious PAK agent and courier through whom he was supplying the information about the Indian Army.	None
He was informed about the places in Pakistan which he was visiting.	None
He was further told that in lieu of the supply of this information he had been receiving money from Pakistan.	None
Nothing more was required to be intimated to enable him to make an effective representation.	None
The facts which were not disclosed were not basic facts and their nondisclosure did not affect the petitioners right of making a representation.35.	None
After analysing the various cases cited on either side we are of the view that the question whether a particular ground is vague will depend on the facts and circumstances of each case because vagueness is a relative term.	None
What may be vague in one case may not be so in similar circumstances of the other case.	Reasoning
If the basic facts have been given in a particular case constituting the grounds of detention which enable the detenu to make an effective representation, merely because meticulous details of facts are not given will not vitiate the order of detention.	Reasoning
We have meticulously examined paragraphs 2 and 3 of the grounds of detention and we are satisfied that basic facts have been given to enable the appellant to make an effective representation.	Reasoning
Of course, it would have been better if other minute details had also been given36.	Reasoning
Lastly we take up the plea raised on behalf of the appellant that the facts alleged in the grounds of detention only make out a case for maintenance of law and order and not of public order.	Reasoning
The difference between the expressions law and order and public order has been the subject matter of consideration by this Court on various occasions.	Reasoning
In Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia v. State of Bihar (AIR 1966 SC 740 ) (supra) this Court observedWhat was meant by the maintenance of public order was the prevention of disorder of a grave nature, a disorder which the authority was necessary to prevent in view of the emergent situation created by external aggression whereas the expression maintenance of law and order may mean prevention of disorder of comparatively lesser gravity and of local significance only.	None
Again, the distinction was brought out in Ashoke Kumar v. Delhi Administration, AIR 1982 SC 1143 , to which one of us was a party.	None
This Court observedThe true distinction between the areas of public order and law and order lies not in the nature or quality of the act, but in the degree and extent of its reach upon society.	None
The distinction between the two concepts of law and order and public order is a fine one but this does not mean that there can be no overlapping.	None
Acts similar in nature but committed in different contexts and circumstances might cause different reactions.	None
In one case it might affect specific individuals only and therefore touch the problem of law and order while in another it might affect public order.	None
The act by itself therefore is not determinant of its own gravity.	None
It is the potentiality of the act to disturb the even tempo of the life of the community which makes it prejudicial to the maintenance of public order.37.	None
The situation in Assam is a grave one and the agitation on the issue of foreigners has been going on for years and it has taken an ugly and serious turn, and the statements of facts made in paragraphs 2 and 3 of the grounds of detention in the prevalent circumstances in Assam relate to the maintenance of public order in view of the law laid down in the above case38.	None
For the foregoing discussion the appeal must fail.	Decision
It is accordingly dismissed.39.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
