 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted.	None
INTRODUCTION Interpretation of the roles and responsibilities of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) visvis the provisions of the Extradition Act, 1962 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) is involved in this appeal.	None
It arises out of a judgment and order dated 11.08.2008 passed by a Division Bench of the High Court of Bombay in Criminal Writ Petition No.676 of 2008 whereby and whereunder the appellants application questioning the validity and or legality of an order issuing a warrant against the appellant by the Magistrate Court, Clayton County, Georgia in case No. 2006/CW/06369 and Case No. 2006/CW/06370 in USA in respect of a complaint filed by the respondent No. 6 herein, was dismissed.	None
The appellant in that application had also sought for a direction restraining the respondents or any other Central Government machinery from arresting the appellant or taking any action pursuant to or in furtherance of the Red Corner Notice issued by INTERPOL in respect of those arrest warrants.	None
BACKGROUND FACTS Appellant and the respondent No. 6 are citizens of India.	Facts
He went to Michigan to pursue his studies in M.S. (Computer Engineering) between August, 1998 and May, 2000.	Facts
He also worked as a Software Engineer at California in a company named Broadbase Software upto 2001.	Facts
He was later on employed as a Technical Lead in a Government Contract Firm at California known as Ancore Corporation between 2001 and 2003.Appellant married the respondent No. 6 on 6.04.2002 at Mumbai.	Facts
They moved to California on 19.04.2002 and stayed there till 2005.	Facts
Out of the said wedlock, a daughter Eesha was born on 26.04.2003.	Facts
Marital life of the Appellant and the Respondent No. 6 was however not happy.	Facts
According to the respondent No. 6, she was continuously being harassed.	Facts
She applied for grant of permanent asylum on 1.07.2003 allegedly under coercion from the appellant.	Facts
Later on the respondent No. 6 allegedly moved to her sisters house at Sharon Massachusetts, USA.PROCEEDINGS IN USAShe filed a complaint with the Sharon Police Department on 26.04.2005.	Facts
On or about 09.05.2005 an application before the Probate and Family Court of Massachusetts for grant of divorce was filed by her.	Facts
In the said proceeding, she also sought for orders of custody of her daughter.	Facts
The Probate and Family Court, Massachusetts passed an order of temporary custody of the child, restraint and abuse prevention ex parte in favour of the respondent No.6 and against the appellant on 10.05.2005.	Facts
Service of the said order is said to have been effected on the appellant on 20.05.2005.	Facts
Allegedly, he neither appeared before the Court contesting the said interim custody order nor sought for any modification thereof.	Facts
Respondent No.6 took up a job and continued to live with her child in Massachusetts.	Facts
She contends that her Indian Passport was stolen by the appellant from the premises which was being occupied by her.	Facts
Admittedly, the appellant came to India with the child on 15.04.2006 in violation of the court custody orders.	Facts
The contention of the appellant is that despite the initial marital discord, the parties started living together.	Facts
It was decided that he should return to India with the child wherefor even a written consent was given by the respondent No. 6 by affirming an affidavit before a Notary on or about 14.04.2006, statingI, Hetal G. Thakker authorize my child Eesha B. Lakhani to travel with my husband and her father, Bhavesh Lakhani to India.	Facts
They will be leaving the United States of America on or about April 14, 2006 and returning on or about (Undecided)Respondent No. 6, however, contends that the appellant travelled out of the United States of America with the child by creating false and fabricated documents including the said affidavit as would also appear from the fact that the child already had a passport.	Facts
On the premise that the child was abducted by the appellant, warrants of arrest were issued against him on the basis of a complaint made by the respondent No. 6 before the police authorities.	Facts
A decree for divorce as also the custody of the child was passed by the Norfolk Country Probate and Family Court, Canton, Massachusetts on 2.5.2006.PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE FAMILY COURTRespondent No. 6 thereafter married one Ashwin Matta.	Facts
Indisputably, she filed an application for custody of the child before the Family Court at Mumbai on 11.05.2007.	Facts
By an order dated 15.05.2007, the Family Court directed the appellant to remain present in the Court with Eesha.	Facts
Pursuant to the said notice of the Family Court, his father appeared before the court on 15.05.2007 and stated that the appellant had gone out of Mumbai along with Eesha.	Facts
The matter, therefore, was adjourned to 18.05.2007.	Facts
On that day the appellants father again appeared and informed the Court that the appellant could not be contacted.	Facts
The Family Court, thus issued a warrant of arrest against the appellant and directed grant of custody of the child to the Respondent No.	Facts
6.Appellant indisputably preferred an appeal before the High Court which was marked as Family Court Appeal (Stamp) No. 11724 of 2007.	Facts
An order of stay was granted by the High Court of Bombay in the matter, which is still operative.	Facts
PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE HIGH COURTThe Atlanta City Police and the American Court in the meanwhile issued a warrant of arrest against the Appellant which was transmitted through INTERPOL to the Government of India.	Facts
Appellant filed a writ petition questioning the legality and or validity of the said warrant, which by reason of the impugned judgment dated 11.08.2008 has been dismissed.	Facts
The High Court posed unto itself a question as to whether the Red Corner Notice could be stayed by it.	Facts
Referring to the provisions of the Act it was opinedi)	Facts
While dealing with a fugitive criminal wanted in a State with which India has no treaty, the Magistrate can enquire into the case in the same manner as if the case was triable by Court of Sessions or High Court.ii)	Facts
However, while dealing with a fugitive criminal wanted in a treaty State, such inquiry and such a trial is not open.iii)	Facts
The Magistrate neither has the power to take evidence nor can he discharge a fugitive criminal.	Facts
In the event, if two conditions, namely, (1) whether the warrant is duly authenticated and (2) whether the fugitive criminal is concerned with an extradition offence are satisfied, the Magistrate is required to commit the fugitive criminal to prison.iv) Only the Central Government in exercise of its power under Section 29 of the Act can discharge a fugitive criminal.v)	Facts
The Magistrate cannot make a roving inquiry into the facts.vi) Extradition treaty implies mutual obligations.vii)	Facts
The Act recognizes the sanctity of an extradition treaty.viii)	Facts
The provisions of Section 105A of the Code of Criminal Procedure would not apply in a case of this nature.ix)	Facts
The High Court cannot tinker with the Red Corner Notice.x)	Facts
The High Court should not set a precedent which could be used to hamper investigation of crimes which have global dimensions and for the investigation of which, Red Corner Notices are critical tool.	Facts
CONTENTIONS ADVANCED BY THE PARTIES Mr. Shekhar Naphade, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant would contend(i) The purported decree for divorce and custody of the child granted by the Probate and Family Court, Massachusetts being wholly without jurisdiction and, thus, being a nullity the same is not admissible in any Court in India.(ii) Respondent No. 6 having prevaricated her stand from stage to stage, no credence thereto could have been placed by the Courts of India for the purpose of acting thereupon.(iii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The purported order of custody in respect of the child passed by the American Courts being in conflict with the order of custody passed by the High Court of Bombay, the appellant could not have been directed to be extradited.(iv)	Arguments of Petitioner
The order passed by the American Court having been obtained upon committing a fraud on the court, the said judgments cannot be executed in India having regard to the provisions contained in Section 44A of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908.(v)	Arguments of Petitioner
Respondent No. 6 having moved the Family Court for custody of the child by invoking the provisions contained in Section 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure, it could not have acted, relying on or on the basis of the orders passed by the Probate and Family Court, Massachusetts and directed grant of custody of the child on the basis thereof.	Arguments of Petitioner
So far s the judgment of the Bombay High Court is concerned, it was urged(i)	Arguments of Petitioner
It ought to have considered that the socalled offence for which the petitioner is charged by the American Court is not an extraditable offence either within the meaning of the said Act or under the provisions of the Extradition Treaty entered into by and between the United States of America and India.(ii) It ought to have been considered that the rights of an Indian citizen guaranteed under Article 19 and Article 21 cannot be compromised for enforcing any of the provisions contained in the Act.(iii)	Arguments of Petitioner
It ought to have been considered that India is not a party or signatory to the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction.(iv)	Arguments of Petitioner
It ought to have considered that the dispute between the petitioner and the Respondent  wife was essentially of a civil nature pertaining to the custody of the minor child.(v)	Arguments of Petitioner
The refusal of the High Court to stay the INTERPOL notices under Article 226 of the Constitution of India is patently erroneous, thus, leading to the miscarriage of justice.(vi)	Arguments of Petitioner
It ought to have been considered that the petitioner who is having his own standing and reputation in the society cannot be treated like a commodity for the sake of any treaty between India and the United States.(vii)	Arguments of Petitioner
It ought to have considered that before touching the petitioner on the basis of a warrant issued by the American Courts proper investigation into the allegations against the petitioner was a must.(viii) It ought to have considered that the provisions of the Constitution of India conferring fundamental rights to its citizens are superior and, thus, prevail over the provisions of the said Act or the Extradition Treaty executed between the Government of India and the United States.(ix) That the entire approach of the High Court was legalistic as the High Court failed to examine the core constitutional issues involved in the matter.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ms. Nitya Ramakrishnan, learned counsel appearing on behalf of Respondent No.6 on the other hand urgedi)	Arguments of Respondent
Keeping in view the Scheme of the Act especially as the question whether the appellant should be extradited or not was not an issue before the High Court, this Court should not interfere with the impugned order at this stage, particularly in view of the fact that no request for extradition has yet been made by the authorities of U.S.A.ii)	Arguments of Respondent
Taking away the child out of the country in violation of an order passed by a competent court of law would amount to abduction and in that view of the matter the appellant must be held to have committed an extraditable offence.iii) Contention of the learned counsel for the Appellant that he had not been served with the notice of the Matrimonial Court is factually incorrect as the records of the case demonstratively establish that, not only a notice but also the order of the Court granting custody in favour of respondent No.6.	Arguments of Respondent
was served on the appellant on 20th May, 2005 which was extended till 24th May, 2005.iv) Although the appellant appeared before the Court on 8th July, 2005 he neither sought any modification of the order nor the custody of the child.v) Appellant having forged documents to take the child out of United States of America as the American Passport was with the respondent No.6 and in that view the appellant must be held to have committed an extraditable offence.vi) Keeping in view the provisions of Section 13 read with Section 29 of the Act, the writ petition before the High Court must be held to be entirely premature as all the contentions raised by the Appellant herein can be raised before the Magistrate in the event the Central Government thinks fit to issue a request to any Magistrate to hold an enquiry in terms of Section 5 of the Act.vii) Appellant even having not appeared before the Family Court at Mumbai, the impugned judgment should not be interfered with.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr.Radhakrishnan, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of Union of India submitted(i) Having regard to the prayers made in the writ petition by the appellant before the High Court, the High Court had no jurisdiction to interfere with the red corner notice or the yellow notice(ii) Despite the fact that the CBI was informed that fugitive criminal was in Mumbai, he had not been detained.(iii)	Arguments of Respondent
Keeping in view the provisions contained in Chapter III of the Act in terms whereof before passing an order of extradition the Magistrate is required to be satisfied whether the Appellant is a fugitive criminal and furthermore in view of Section 29 thereof empowers the Central Government i.e. Respondent to discharge any fugitive criminal if it appears to it to be a case of trivial nature.(iv)	Arguments of Respondent
The C.B.I. despite having informed the U.S. authorities as regards the whereabouts of the appellant, no request for extradition having been received by the Central Government, the writ petition must held to be premature.	Arguments of Respondent
Dr. Rajiv Dhavan, learned senior counsel, who was requested to assist us in the matter raised the following contentions(i).	Arguments of Respondent
The Central Bureau of Investigation does not have any authority to deal with Red Corner Notices issued by the Interpol Secretarial General at the behest of any member country.(ii).	Arguments of Respondent
No red corner notice can be issued in violation of civil liberties of an Indian and particularly in a matrimonial case, the effect whereof may result ina) detentionb) arrestc) circulation of name on website andd) surveillancewhich would amount to gross violations of law as the appellants personal liberty, as contained in Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India, would have been interfered with, without any authority of law.	Arguments of Respondent
As no law operates in the field, the actions of the State and in particular the Central Bureau of Investigation are unconstitutional and invalid, being violative of the civil liberties of the citizens of India.(iii).	Arguments of Respondent
The executive power is coterminous with the legislative power but the legislative power wherever exists, should not be permitted to be used so as to interfere with the right of an individual and in particular private rights of the citizens.(iv).	Arguments of Respondent
Any executive or departmental instructions framed for the guidance of the police officers being not a law no executive power can be exercised to curtail the fundamental right of a citizen in terms thereof(v).	Arguments of Respondent
Central Bureau of Investigation having been constituted in terms of the provisions of Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (hereinafter referred to as the DSPE Act), and having regard to the limitations of its powers contained therein, it could not exercise its jurisdiction within the territories of a State without its consent.(vi).	Arguments of Respondent
C.B.I. had no jurisdiction of surveillance in terms of the Red Corner Notice or Yellow Corner Notice issued by the Interpol or otherwise.(vii).	Arguments of Respondent
C.B.I. being a creature of the statute must be held to be bound by the provisions of the DSPE Act and cannot act in a sui generis capacity.(viii).	Arguments of Respondent
C.B.I. having a limited territorial jurisdiction, its services cannot be used outside its territorial framework.(ix).	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court committed a manifest error in passing the impugned judgment insofar as it failed to take into consideration the relevant provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure enacted in terms of Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1993(x).	Arguments of Respondent
In terms of inserted Section 105A to 105L of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the C.B.I. could not have acted except in terms of specific order of the court passed in that regard.(xi).	Arguments of Respondent
A matrimonial dispute between spouses and in particular in regard to the custody of a child being essentially a dispute of civil nature, the provisions of the Act could not have been put to service.(xii).	Arguments of Respondent
In any event the provisions of the Act cannot be pressed in red corner notice cases and the deportation provisions under the Foreigners Act should not be misused thereby.(xiii).	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court committed a serious error in passing the impugned judgment both in regard to the conclusion as well as directions in so far as it utterly failed to take into consideration the civil liberties aspect as also the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. G.E. Vahanvati, learned Attorney General for India, who was also requested to assist us in the matter upon taking appropriate instructions from the Ministry of External Affairs, as would appear from our order dated 24th March, 2009, would also contend that the High Court judgment is unsustainable as it failed to take into considerationa)	Arguments of Respondent
There is nothing on record to show that the appellant had committed an extraditable offence within the meaning of the provisions of the Extradition Treaty entered into by and between India and the United States of Americab)	Arguments of Respondent
A matrimonial dispute would not ordinarily come within the purview of the Actc)	Arguments of Respondent
The provisions of the Act as also enforcement of the Extradition Treaty would arise only when a person is a fugitive criminal and he has committed an extraditable offence and not otherwise.	Arguments of Respondent
THE EXTRADITION TREATY The Extradition Treaty between the Government of Republic of India and the Government of the United States of America entered into on 21st July, 1999.	None
It was published in the Official Gazette dated 14th September, 1999.	None
By reason of Article 1 thereof the Contracting States agreed to extradite to each other, pursuant to the provisions thereof, persons who, by the authorities in the requesting State are formally accused of, charged with or convicted of an extraditable offence, whether such offence was committed before or after the entering into force of the Treaty.	Reasoning
Article 2 defines extraditable offence to mean an offence punishable under the laws in both the Contracting States by deprivation of liberty, including imprisonment, for a period of more than one year or by a more severe penalty.	None
An offence shall also be an extraditable one if it consists of an attempt or a conspiracy to commit, aiding or abetting, counseling or procuring the commission of or being an accessory before or after the fact to, any offence described in paragraph 1.	None
Article 4 defines political offenses.	None
Clause (2) of Article 4 inter alia provides that offences related to illegal drugs, shall not be treated to be political offence.	None
Article 9 provides for extradition procedures and required documents, the relevant portion whereof reads as under Article 9  Extradition Procedures and Required Documents All requests for extradition shall be submitted through the diplomatic channel.	Reasoning
All requests for extradition shall be supported by (a) documents, statements, or other types of information which describe the identity and probable location of the persons sought (b) information describing the facts of the offense and the procedural history of the case (c) a statement of the provisions of the law describing the essential elements of the offense for which extradition is requested (d) a statement of the provisions of the law describing the punishment for the offense and (e) the documents, statements, or other types of information specified in paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 of this Article, as applicable.	None
A request for extradition of a person who is sought for prosecution shall also be supported by (a) a copy of the warrant or order of arrest, issued by a judge or other competent authority (b) a copy of the charging document, if any, and (c) such information as would justify the committal for trial of the person if the offense had been committed in the Requested State.	None
Article 10 provides that the documents accompanying an extradition request shall be received and admitted as evidence in extradition proceedings if in the case of a request from the United States, they are certified by the principal diplomatic or principal consular officer of the Republic of India resident in the United States or they are certified or authenticated in any other manner accepted by the laws in the Requested State.	None
Article 12 of the Treaty reads as under Provisional Arrest In case of urgency, a Contracting State may request the provisional arrest of the person sought pending presentation of the request for extradition.	None
A request for provisional arrest may be transmitted through the diplomatic channel.	None
The facilities of the International Criminal Police Organisation (Interpol) may be used to transmit such a request.	None
The application for provisional arrest shall contain (a) a description of the person sought (b) the location of the person sought, if known (c) a brief statement of the facts of the case, including, if possible, the time and location of the offense (d) a description of the laws violated (e) a statement of the existence of a warrant of a warrant of arrest or a finding of guilt or judgment of conviction against the person sought and (f) a statement that a request for extradition for the person sought will follow.	None
The Requesting State shall be notified without delay of the disposition of its application and the reasons for any denial.	None
A person who is provisionally arrested may be discharged from custody upon the expiration of sixty (60) days from the date of provisional arrest pursuant to this Treaty if the executive authority of the Requested State has not received the formal request for extradition and the supporting documents required in Article 9.	None
The fact that the person sought has been discharged from custody pursuant to paragraph (4) of this Article shall not prejudice the subsequent rearrest and extradition of that person if the extradition request and supporting documents are delivered at a later date.	None
Article 17 provides that a person extradited under the Treaty may not be detained, tried or punished in the requesting State except for the offenses enumerated therein.	None
Lastly, it is also imperative to note the provisions of	None
Article 21 which read as under Article 21 Consultation	None
The competent authorities of the United States and the Republic of India may consult with each other directly or through the facilities of Interpol in connection with the processing of individual cases and in furtherance of maintaining and improving procedures for the implementation of the Treaty.	None
Furthermore it ought to be noted that India has entered into two treaties with the United States of America.	None
The first treaty has been entered into in 1999 and the second in 2001.	None
The 2001 Treaty however deals with rendering of mutual legal assistance by one country to another is not fairly applicable in the instant case.	None
THE ACT The Act was enacted to consolidate and amend the law relating to extradition of fugitive criminals and to provide for the matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.	None
It is a special statute.	None
Section 2(c) of the Act defines an Extradition Offence in the following words (c) extradition offence means in relation to a foreign State, being a treaty State, an offence provided for in the extradition treaty with that State in relation to a foreign State other than a treaty State an offence punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one year under the laws of India or of a foreign State and includes a composite offence Section 2(d) defines Extradition Treaty to mean a treaty, agreement or arrangement made by India with a foreign State Relating to the extradition of fugitive criminals, and includes a treaty, agreement or arrangement relating to the extradition of fugitive criminals made before the 15th day of August, 1947, which extends to, and is binding on, India A fugitive criminal is defined under Section 2 (f) of the Act to mean a person who is accused or convicted of an extradition offence within the jurisdiction of a foreign State and includes a person who, while in India, conspires, attempts to commit or incites or participates as an accomplice in the commission of an extradition offence in a foreign State.	None
A treaty State is defined under Section 2 (j) of the Act to mean a foreign State with which an extradition treaty is in operation.	None
Chapter II of the Act deals with extradition of fugitive criminals to foreign States to which Chapter III does not apply.	None
Chapter III of the Act deals with return of fugitive criminals to foreign States which have Extradition Agreements.	None
CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE In 1994, Parliament added Chapter VIIA titled Reciprocal arrangements for assistance in certain matters and procedure for attachment and forfeiture of property to the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973.	None
This Chapter was introduced to facilitate the agreement between the Government of United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.	None
This was to facilitate cooperation in investigation of crime, secure, evidence, documents and witnesses.	None
It primarily deals with the question of attachment of property (Section 105C to J and Section 105A(b) to (e)).	None
It also contains provisions for Assistance in securing the transfer of persons (Section 105B).	None
We are concerned with the latter provisions relating to arrest and transfer.	None
The following threshold requirements are that these reciprocal procedures are Applicable only in respect of contracting States.	None
Section 105A contains the interpretation Clause.	None
Some of the relevant provisions are as under In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, (a) contracting State means any country or place outside India in respect of which arrangements have been made by the Central Government with the Government of such country through a treaty or otherwise The statutory procedures and the institutions put in place for processing these arrangements have been statutorily prescribed.	None
Section 105B	None
which is relevant for our purpose reads as under 105B  Assistance in securing transfer of persons.  	None
Where a Court in India, in relation to a criminal matter, has received a warrant for arrest of any person requiring him to attend or attend and produce a document or other thing in that Court or before any other investigating agency, issued by a Court, Judge or Magistrate in a contracting State, the same shall be executed as if it is the warrant received by it from another Court in India for execution within its local limits.	None
Where a person transferred to a contracting State pursuant to subsection (3) is a prisoner in India, the Court in India or the Central Government may impose such conditions as that Court or Government deems fit.	None
In any reciprocal arrangement (a) the Court, Judge or Magistrate to whom such a request can be made shall be specified by the Central Government (Section 105B (1) and (2).	None
(b) the form in which such a request can be made shall be specified by the Central Government (Section 105B(1)).	None
After due application of mind, a transfer of a person out of India would be on the basis that the Court in India or Central Government may impose such conditions as that Court or Government thinks fit (Section 105B(4) Section 41(g) of the Code of Criminal Procedure also assumes relevance here.	None
It reads as under When police may arrest without warrant.(1)	None
Any police officer may without an order from a Magistrate and without a warrant, arrest any person (a) (g) who has been concerned in, or against whom a reasonable complaint has been made, or credible information has been received, or a reasonable suspicion exists, of his having been concerned in, any act committed at any place out of India which, if committed in India, would have been punishable as an offence, and for which he is, under any law relating to extradition, or otherwise, liable to be apprehended or detained in custody in India ISSUESIn view of the rival contentions of the parties, the following questions which arise for our consideration are(i) Whether having regard to the concept of sovereignty the Executive Government of India can enforce a warrant passed by the Probate and Family Court, Massachusetts?(ii) Having regard to the provisions contained in Sections 44A and 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure, is the foreign judgment enforceable in India?(iii) Whether the CBI established under the DPSE Act has the authority to deal with INTERPOL notices?	Issue
MATRIMONIAL DISPUTE AND THE COURTS POWER OF REVIEW	None
The dispute between the appellant and the respondent No.6 essentially being a matrimonial dispute, is a private dispute.	None
Criminal offences, if any, are sought to be made out relate to the violation of the Order of the Court which speaks of commission of an offence of forgery as well.	None
A Yellow Corner Notice is evidently used to trace missing minors.	None
The Interpol issued a yellow or watch notice on 13.6.2007 in respect of Eesha, minor daughter of the respondent No. 6.	None
It, however, issued a red or detain and arrest notice on 21.6.2007 to locate and arrest the Appellant.	None
Pursuant thereto or in furtherance thereof, the Assistant Director, National Crimes Bureau (NCB) forwarded a letter dated 4.1.2008 received from the U.S. Embassy (Department of Justice) to the Mumbai Police to locate the appellant and his daughter on 14.01.2008.	None
Appellant was located by Mumbai Police on 3.5.2008 and the said information was passed on to the U.S. Embassy on 9.5.2008.The CBI has also filed its counter affidavit before this Court stating that the Indian Interpol Wing works as an interface between the Interpol Secretariat General, France, Interpol member countries and various law enforcement agencies of India.	None
One of its functions is to circulate the Red Corner Notice as also Yellow Corner Notices issued by the Interpol Secretariat General at the behest of any member country within India.	Reasoning
The Red Corner Notice is issued to the border control authorities and others so as to enable them to effect an arrest along with details and papers including a warrant from the originating country.	Reasoning
An arrest may also be made under the said Act.	Reasoning
The Ministry of External Affairs works for the administrative watching of the Act.	Reasoning
A Red Corner Notice has large number of consequences, some of which are(i)	Reasoning
The requesting country may make a deportation request.(ii)	Reasoning
The law enforcement agency in India is required to take follow up action with regard to the arrest of a fugitive criminal.(iii)	Reasoning
The information emanating from the red corner notice is required to be distributed all over the Interpol website.(iv)	Reasoning
The requesting Embassy would instruct the CBI to carry out its instructions for surveillance, arrest and detention.(v)	Reasoning
The requesting Embassy can even contact the Indian police directly.(vi)	Reasoning
Thereafter extradition proceedings may follow.	Reasoning
Indisputably, therefore, when a proceeding under the Act is initiated, the civil liberty of a person would be directly affected.	Reasoning
The provisions of the Act, therefore, should be strictly construed.	Reasoning
Any request for extradition therefore must undergo the strict scrutiny test.	Reasoning
Extradition offence keeping in view its definition in Section 2(c) of the Act in relation to a treaty State must be one provided for the extradition treaty therewith.	Reasoning
Application of the provisions of the Act, thus, in a case of this nature must be held to be imperative in character.	Reasoning
We have noticed hereinbefore that for the purpose of applying the provisions of the Act, existence of a treaty between the requesting State and the requested State plays an important role.	Reasoning
It makes a distinction between an extraditable offence and other offences including political offences subject of course to the condition that offences relating to illegal tax are not to be treated to be a political offence.	Reasoning
Sections 418 provides for the mode and manner in which a request for extradition of a person is required to be made by the concerned country.	None
The requirements are specific in nature and are required to be accompanied by a large number of documents.	Reasoning
It is accepted at the Bar that no request has yet been made to the Executive Government of the Government of India for extradition of the Appellant upon compliance of the provisions of Section 218 or otherwise.	Reasoning
It is but imperative to note the provisions of the Treaty here visa vis the implementation of a Red Yellow Corner Notice.	Reasoning
Article 1 of the Treaty provides that the Contracting States agree to extradite to each other, persons who are accused of, charged with or convicted of an extraditable offence.	Reasoning
Article 2 provides for the extraditable office.	Reasoning
Article 4 provides for political offences which are outside the purview of the Treaty.	Reasoning
Article 9 provides for the extradition procedures and required documents.	Reasoning
It is beyond any doubt or dispute that no request for extradition has been received by the Government of India.	Reasoning
It could act only when a request is received.	Reasoning
It is accepted at the Bar that Red Corner Notice by itself cannot be a basis of arrest or transfer of an Indian citizen to a foreign jurisdiction.	Reasoning
There is furthermore no dispute that the Act cannot be bypassed in red corner cases concerning Indian citizens.	Reasoning
Hence the Extradition Treaty is subject to the provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
It also stands admitted that the Appellant being an Indian citizen is entitled to enforcement of his fundamental rights.	Reasoning
The legal position that a person cannot be arrested without any authority of law again is not denied or disputed.	Reasoning
Thus, the arrest of a person must be effected in terms of the provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
A person wanted for an offence in a foreign jurisdiction may be arrested on fulfillment of the following conditions(i) That the offence should be counted as one by Indian Law as well, and(ii)	Reasoning
The person must be liable to be arrested in India  either under any law relating to extradition, or otherwise.	Reasoning
Such an arrest can be effected only pursuant to a warrant issued by the Magistrate in view of Sections 6, 16 and 34B of the Act or an arrest warrant issued by a foreign country and endorsed by the Central Government under Section 15 of the Act.	Reasoning
It is also not in doubt or dispute that in a case where there is no treaty, it is only the Magistrate who issues the warrant for arrest subject of course to the condition that the Central Government had ordered a Magisterial Inquiry in terms of Section 5 of the Act.	Reasoning
Such an order of arrest, emanating from a Treaty State, is also permissible under a Provisional Warrant issued by a Magistrate in exercise of its power under Section 16 of the Act, upon information that the fugitive should be apprehended subject to the condition that the detention thereunder may continue only for the time requisite for obtaining an endorsed warrant from the Central Government.	None
All arrested persons are required to be immediately produced before a Magistrate whereupon it would have power to grant bail.	None
Section 34B provides that the person so arrested would have to be released on bail after a period of 60 days.	None
If actual request for extradition is required within the said period having regard to Section 41(g) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Central Government cannot direct or effect an urgent arrest in anticipation of an extradition request without obtaining a warrant issued by a Magistrate.	None
Article 12 provides that provisions of provisional arrest according to which in a case of urgency, the Contracting State may request the provisional arrest of the person sought pending presentation of the request for extradition.	None
It also provides that the facilities of International Criminal Police Organization (Interpol) may be used to transmit such a request.	None
However, when a request for provisional arrest in terms of Article 12 is communicated, it must satisfy the requirement of Section 34B of the Act.	None
Such request from a foreign country must be accompanied by the requisite documents and not a communication from INTERPOL alone.	None
It will bear repetition to state that an arrest can be effected at the instance of the Central Government only when such a request is made by the foreign country and not otherwise.	None
Respondent No.6 herself accepts that she had pursued only civil remedies and the order of the custody Court was passed under civil remedies.	None
Section 29 of the Act as indicated hereinbefore provides for power of Central Government to discharge any fugitive criminal.	None
If it has arrived at a conclusion that it is unjust or inexpedient to surrender or return the fugitive criminal.	None
The High Court, therefore, in our opinion, committed a serious error insofar as it failed to take into consideration the provisions of the Act, in the absence of any request having been made by the Government of United States of America to the Executive Government of the Union of India or any authorization made by the latter in this behalf.	Decision
India follows the doctrine of dualism and not monoism.	None
We may, however, hasten to add that this Court, however, at times for the purpose of interpretation of statute has taken into consideration not only the treaties in which India is a party but also declarations, covenants and resolutions passed in different International Conferences.	None
See M s Entertainment Network (India) Ltd. vs. M s Super Cassettee Industries Ltd. 2008 (9) SCALE 69	None
The Act as also the treaties entered into by and between India and foreign countries are admittedly subject to our municipal law.	None
Enforcement of a treaty is in the hands of the Executive.	None
But such enforcement must conform to the domestic law of the country.	None
Whenever, it is well known, a conflict arises between a treaty and the domestic law or a municipal law, the latter shall prevail.	None
It furthermore stands admitted that matrimonial dispute as such does not constitute an extraditable offence and, thus, no effect could be given thereto.	None
However, whether this case concerns an extraditable offence or not has to be determined by the Magistrate under the Act.	None
We have noticed hereinbefore that the Treaty itself provides that the same is subject to any Municipal Laws of the country.	None
It is thus for the State concerned to take a decision in regard to such notices, keeping in view the Municipal Laws.	Decision
The steps to deal with the request contained in the notices, thus, must abide by the domestic laws of the concerned country.	None
Recognition of the request as the basis for an arrest operate an internationalization or tansnationalization of a foreign administrative decision.	None
The formal admission procedure by Interpol cannot be the single cause of internalization.	None
It is just a precondition for the recognition by the other states.	None
We may however add that, indisputably the appellant received a notice from Interpol dated 13th June, 2007 being a Yellow or Watch notice as also a Notice dated 21st June, 2007 being a Red or Detain and Arrest notice.	None
Yellow notice was in relation to the child whereas the red notice was in relation to the Appellant.	None
The Assistant Director of National Crime Bureau (NCB) forwarded a letter dated 4th January, 2008 from the U.S. Embassy (Department of Justice) on or about 14th January, 2009 to the Mumbai Police to locate the Appellant and his daughter.	None
On 18th March, 2008 notice of arrest warrant issued by INTERPOL was circulated against the Appellant on the Interpol Website.	None
Mumbai police is said to have found the location of the Appellant and his daughter on 3rd May, 2008 which information was passed on to U.S. Embassy on 9th May, 2008.	None
It is also not in dispute that the CBI has an Interpol Wing as is evident from its counteraffidavit and that the U.S. Embassy was in touch with it as also of the Mumbai Police in respect of locating the Appellant.	None
Before, however, we advert to the functioning of CBI visvis its role in terms of notices issued by Interpol, it would be appropriate to place on record the constitution of Interpol.	None
APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER VIIA OF THE CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE For the purposes of effectively implementing the treaty providing for mutual assistance between the Government of United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Chapter VIIA of the Code of Criminal Procedure was enacted as is also provided in the Statement and Objects thereof.	None
The said provisions were laid down by the Parliament so as to consider implementation of the provisions of the reciprocal arrangements for assistance in certain matters and procedure for attachment.	None
The provisions contained in Section 105A onwards of the Code of Criminal Procedure are subject to additions, exceptions or qualifications as may be specified in the Notification issued by the Central Government.	None
Indisputably where there exists any reciprocal arrangement, the following are required to be complied with The Court, Judge or Magistrate is required to be specified by the Central Government to whom a request can be made.	None
The form in which such a request is to be made is again required to be specified by the Central Government.	None
A transfer of a person out of India must precede upon due application of mind on the part of the Magistrate subject again to the condition that either the Court or the Central Government may impose such conditions as they may seem fit and proper.	None
It is submitted by the learned counsel that with regard to dispute of the provisions of international comity (a) any transfer of a human being to another country goes to the root of fundamentally protected civil liberties.	None
Chapter VIIA of the Code of Criminal Procedure is hedged in with limitations requiring the intervention of the Court and Central Government with due application of mind.	None
No mechanical transfer can be made simply at the instance of government or the CBI which in any case has no role to play.	None
The application of the Act is not ousted and cannot be by passed.	None
The Court may examining equitable and other factors.	None
This is implied from the condition imposing power.	None
To that extent, the provisions of Chapter VIIA shall be read up to bring it in conformity with Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution.	None
In our opinion, however, the submissions are a clear misreading of Chapter VIIA of the Code of Criminal Procedure which does not apply in situations of Extradition.	None
INTERPOL ((The International Criminal Police Organisation).	None
The INTERPOL is the worlds largest international police organization with 187 countries as its members.	None
It was created in 1923.	None
The object of establishing the INTERPOL was to ensure and promote the widest possible mutual assistance between all criminal police authorities.	None
It facilitates cross  border police cooperation and supports as well as assists all organizations, authorities and services whose mission is to prevent or combat international crime.	None
Even in a case where the country concerned inter se do not have any diplomatic relation, the INTERPOL aims to facilitate international police cooperation.	None
Action is taken by it, having regard to the provisions contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and keeping in view the limitation of existing municipal laws of the country concerned.	None
It has six departments, namely The General Assembly ii) Executive Committee iii) General Secretariat iv) National Control Bureaus Advisers and vi) Commission for the Control of Interpol Files.	None
We are concerned here only with the National Central Bureaus.	None
Each INTERPOL member country maintains a National Control Bureau (NCB) staffed by national law enforcement officers.	None
The NCB is the designated contact point for the General Secretariat, Regional Officers and other member countries requiring assistance with overseas investigations and the location of fugitives.	None
It serves as operational center and liking platforms between the national and the international level.	None
It is not in dispute that in terms of Article 32 of the INTERPOL Constitution each member country is to have a NCB responsible for exchanging information and data for coordination the functioning within its own country, with other member countries as also with the General Secretariat of the INTERPOL.	None
The INTERPOL Constitution prohibits any intervention or activities of a political, military, religious or racial character.	None
The International policing ultimately depends on coordinated action on the part of the Member States police forces so as to obtain the required information or services as and when any occasion arises therefor.	None
We may furthermore place on record that the Constitution of the Interpol was adopted by a Resolution of the General Assembly i.e. AG2005Res05.	None
Initially its status was of an observed as Non Governmental Organisation (NGO).	None
In Public International Law, keeping in view its status, INTERPOL is considered to be an International Organisation with its own legal personality.	None
The contribution to the financing of the organization is by the Member States.	None
Member States can have several delegates in the General Assembly.	None
INTERPOL NOTICES The organizational system of issuing International notices forms the backbone of its functioning.	None
The Member countries in terms of notices share critical crime related information.	None
They concern individuals wanted for serious crimes, missing persons, unidentified bodies etc.	None
Such notices contain comprehensive identity particulars of the individuals concerned including the physical description, fingerprinting, occupation and all other relevant information including the offence with which the person has been charged, reference to the law under which the charge was made or the conviction was obtained etc.	None
The notices issued by the INTERPOL are of six types  Red Notice Yellow Notice Blue Notice Green Notice Black Notice and Orange Notice.	None
It also contemplates InterpolUnited Nations Special Notice.	None
We are concerned herein only with Red and Yellow Notices.	None
A Red Corner notice is issued to seek the provisional arrest of a wanted person.	None
However, it by itself does not have the effect of warrant of arrest.	None
It is issued for persons, against whom a national or international court has issued a warrant of arrest.	None
It is solely a request of the issuing entity to provisionally or finally arrest the wanted person for extradition.	None
A Yellow notice, however, is issued for finding a missing person or to identify people who are not capable of identifying themselves.	None
It is an International Missing Person Notice.	None
It is issued specially to locate minors.	None
PROCEDURE FOR ISSUING NOTICE Notice in terms of Article 10.5 of the RPI (Rules governing the processing and communication of police information) of the INTERPOL can be issued by the General Secretariat either at the request of an authorized entity or on its own initiative as is the case in Green and Orange Notices.	None
Usually, the NCBs are the authors of a Red or Yellow Notice.	None
The General Secretariat before issuing or distributing Notices, especially to other offices than the NCBs, has to evaluate, whether the issue is necessary and advisable having regard to the aims and tasks of the organization, the respect of Human Rights and the required security measures against possible menaces to the police cooperation, to Interpol itself or to the member states.	None
The General Secretariat has been authorized by the General Assembly to forbid the issuing of a Notice, if it does not meet the requirements of a request for provisional arrest.	None
However, we must place on record that a reference to the presumption of innocence of the wanted person is not a part of the published rules and regulations.	None
Only the corresponding pages of the internet appearance of the organization contain explicitly highlighted warnings of this kind.	None
It bears repetition to state that the General Secretariat of the Interpol publishes the notices either on its own initiative, or based on the requests from the NCB or international organization or entities with whom the INTERPOL has special agreements.	None
It may be of some interest also to notice that in the year 2008 alone the INTERPOL issued 3126 Red Corner Notices and around 385 Yellow Corner Notices.	None
At this juncture we may also place on record that Article 12 of the Extradition Treaty dated 14th September, 1999 entered into between the Government of India and the Government of the United States of America deals with provisional arrest of the person sought pending presentation of the request for extradition providing that the facilities of the INTERPOL may be used to transmit such a request.	None
Furthermore, Article 21 of the Treaty providing for Consultation also contemplates the use of the INTERPOLS services.	None
BINDING NATURE OF THE INTERPOL NOTICES	None
The notices issued by INTERPOL are not considered as administrative decisions on individual cases with transnational effect.	None
They are not construed as an international administrative act.	None
They lack a character of regulation.	None
They do not constitute an international arrest warrant and they are not in any other form binding the individuals concerned legally.	None
They, however, gain de facto with special relevance to the Human Rights through multiplication of its recipients.	None
Infact Interpols red notices often function as de facto international arrest warrants and countries issue warrants immediately upon receipt of such a notice.	None
However, they do so with the understanding that a request for extradition with supporting evidence will follow the red notice, without delay.	None
The suspect must then go through the standard extradition process.	None
The bottom line is that warrants to arrest suspects must have legal authority in the jurisdiction where the suspect is found and Interpol red notices do not have such authority.	None
They are primarily a means of facilitating communication between police agencies and the success of the Interpol system still depends entirely upon voluntary cooperation.	None
They, however, do not entirely lack external effects.	None
A number of states recognizes the Red Notices as an official request for the arrest of a person.	None
However, such a request does not require the action of national police authorities and does not provide a legal basis thereto.	None
The transnationalization takes place through the membership in the organization, through the supervision proviso of the General Secretariat and the recognition of the transnational effect of the information.	None
A successful search does not result in Interpols further operative involvement, either.	None
Concerned authorities or the public are supposed to contact the local police office, which then gets in touch with the issuing authority and initiates the necessary steps.	None
Therefore, the member state usually gives the initiative for a Notice, and cooperates with one or several other member states in order to find and arrest the wanted person.	None
Existing information is just distributed through a special communication channel.	None
Interpols role is limited to that of a service agency.	None
See Bettina SchondorfHaubold, The Administration of Information in International Administrative Law  	None
The Example of Interpol, 9 German L.J. 1719 CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (C.B.I.)	None
A Special Police Force was constituted in the year 1943 by promulgation of an Ordinance by the Government of India in terms whereof the powers of investigation of certain offences committed in connection with the departments of the Central Government committed any where in British India were vested with it.	None
The said Ordinance lapsed on 30th September, 1946.	None
As the Central Government felt the necessity to cope with the cases of bribery and corruption investigated after the end of the war, the said Ordinance was repealed and replaced by Delhi Special Police Ordinance of 1946.	None
The DSPE Act was brought into existence the same year.	None
After the promulgation of the DSPE Act, superintendence of Special Police Establishment (SPE) was transferred to the Home Department and its functions were enlarged to cover all departments of the Government of India.	None
It jurisdiction was also extended to all the Union territories.	None
The DSPE Act provided for its extension to States with the consent of the concerned State Government.	None
The C.B.I. was established, as it was felt that SPE would not be able to cope with the problems arising out of the countrys overexpanding economy, by reason of a Resolution adopted by the Government of India vide Resolution No.4/31/61T dated 1st April, 1963.	None
Later on the SPE was merged with the C.B.I and became one of its Division.	None
In terms of the provisions contained in Section 3 of the DSPE Act, the Central Government issues Notifications empowering the C.B.I. to investigate in regard to the offences specified by it The Notification dated 23rd September 1989, S.O. 2301 empowered the CBI to investigate, among other things, offences relating to Sections	None
363 363A 365 and 368 of the Indian Penal Code being some of them.	None
It is at this juncture, a discussion of the DSPE Act becomes imperative.	None
The Title and Preamble of DSPE Act reads An Act to make provision for the constitution of a special police force in Delhi for the investigation of certain offences in the Union territories for the superintendence and administration of the said force and for the extension to other areas of the power and jurisdiction of the members of the said force in regards to the investigation of the said offences.	None
Whereas it is necessary to constitute a special police force in Delhi for the investigation of certain offences in the Union territories and to make provisions of for the superintendence and administration of the said force and for the extension to other areas of the powers and jurisdiction of the members of the said force in regard to the investigation of the said offences.	None
The relevant provisions of the DSPE Act are Sections 2 3 and 5, which read as under Constitution and powers of special police establishment.	None
(1) Notwithstanding anything in the Police Act, 1861 (5 of 1861), the Central Government may constitute a special police force to be called the Delhi Special Police Establishment for the investigation in any Union Territory of offences notified under Section 3.	None
Subject to any orders which the Central Government may make in this behalf, members of the said police establishment shall have throughout in any Union Territory, in relation to the investigation of such offences and arrest of persons concerned in such offences, all the powers, duties, privileges and liabilities which police officers of that Union Territory have in connection with the investigation of offences committed therein.	None
Any member of the said police establishment of or above the rank of SubInspector may, subject to any orders which the Central Government may make in this behalf, exercise any Union Territory or any of the powers of the officerincharge, of a police station in the area in which he is for the time being and when so exercising such powers shall, subject to any such order as aforesaid, be deemed to be an officerincharge of a police station discharging the functions of such an officer within the limits of his station.	None
Offences to be investigated by special police establishment.	None
The Central Government may, by notification in the official Gazette, specify the offences or classes of offences which are to be investigated by the Delhi Special Police Establishment.	None
Extension of powers and jurisdiction of special police establishment to other areas.	None
(1) Central Government may by order extend to any area (including Railway areas) a State, not being a Union Territory the powers and jurisdiction of members of the Delhi Special Police Establishment for the investigation of any offences or classes of offences specified in a notification under Section 3.	None
When by an order under subsection (1) the powers and jurisdiction of members of the said police establishment are extended to any such area, a member thereof may, subject to any orders which the Central Government may make in this behalf, discharge the functions of a police officer in that area and shall, while so discharging such functions be deemed to be a member of the police force of the area and be vested with the powers, functions and privileges and be subject to the liabilities of a police officer belonging to that police force.	None
Undoubtedly in terms of Section 5 of the DSPE Act, although the powers of the authority established therein can be extended by the Central Government upon the consent of the concerned State, we may notice that by reason of the Government of Indias Resolution dated 1st April, 1963 the C.B.I. was empowered to conduct investigation with regard to coordination, InterState matters and participation as the National Central Bureau in the work connected with the INTERPOL thereby presupposing the nonrequirement of the concerned States consent.	None
We have referred to the said question as one of the contentions raised by Dr. Dhawan is that without the consent of the State, the C.B.I. could not have directed any surveillance on the Appellant or got the warrant of arrest executed through the Mumbai police.	None
Although, we intend to deal with the said question separately we may at this juncture notice the relevant entries in the List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution.	None
They read Entry 8 Central Bureau of Investigation.	None
Entry 10 Foreign Affairs all matters which bring the Union into relation with any foreign country.	None
Entry 11 Diplomatic, consular and trade representation.	None
Entry 12 United Nations Organisation.	None
Entry 13 Participation in International Conferences, associations and other bodies and implementing of decisions made thereat Entry 14 Entering into treaties and agreements with foreign countries and implementing of treaties, agreements and conventions with foreign countries.	None
Entry 18 Extradition The legislative power of the Parliament is, therefore, broad and cover wide ranging legislative field.	None
COORDINATION WING OF THE CBI	None
The Coordination Wing is a non investigating Unit of CBI dealing with the general coordination and administrative matters relating to Interpol and Coordination functions of CBI.	None
Its primary duty is to liaise and coordinate with Branches of CBI and other Departments Ministries, Law Enforcement Agencies, State UT Police Forces and foreign Police Missions and organizations as and when required.	None
One of the main functions which is being looked after by the Coordination Wing of CBI, pertinent in the case of Look out Circulars All the State Police forces and other law enforcement agencies in India have a link through INTERPOL New Delhi to their counter  parts in other member countries through the Interpol Global Communications System ( I 24/7) prepared to assist in dealing with criminal investigations.	None
JURISDICTION OF C.B.I.	None
The provisions relating to issuance of the notice by INTERPOL warrant of arrest by foreign courts visvis the power of NCB and the local police to act in terms thereof are contained not only in the Act but also in the provisions of the concerned Treaty, Code of Criminal Procedure as also the various Notifications issued by the Central Government in that behalf.	None
POWERS UNDER THE ACT We will deal with this subject in two parts one is stage before arrest and second stage after arrest.	None
BEFORE ARREST Power to apprehend or investigate a fugitive criminal, we have noticed hereinbefore, is conferred by Section 14 read with Section 15 of the Act.	None
Section 14 prescribes the form of apprehension of a fugitive criminal under an endorsed warrant or a provisional warrant.	None
Section 14 of the Act reads as hereunder Endorsed and provisional warrants.	None
A fugitive criminal may be apprehended in India under an endorsed warrant or a provisional warrant.	None
Warrant can be issued by a foreign country to arrest a fugitive criminal who is yet to be tried and a person who has already been convicted.	None
A fugitive criminal may be apprehended either under category (i) an Endorsed Warrant and (ii) a Provisional Warrant.	None
An Endorsed Warrant is one which is a warrant that has, at first been issued by the foreign country with which India has an Extradition Treaty and subsequently been endorsed by the Central Government.	None
Hence once a warrant issued by the foreign country is endorsed by the Central government, it becomes an Endorsed Warrant in terms whereof sufficient authority is conferred to apprehend a person and to bring him before any Magistrate in India.	None
Power to apprehend includes the power to investigate.	None
Section 15 uses the term Apprehend which is defined as the seizing or taking hold of a man the act of arresting or seizing under the process of law.	None
Section 15 of the Act describes endorsed warrant.	None
It reads as Endorsed warrant for apprehension of fugitive criminal.	None
Where a warrant for the apprehension of a fugitive criminal has been issued in any 3foreign state to which this Chapter applies and such fugitive criminal is, or is suspected to be, in India, the Central Government may, if satisfied that the warrant was issued by a person having lawful authority to issue the same, endorse such warrant in the manner prescribed, and the warrant so endorsed shall be sufficient authority to apprehend the person named in the warrant and to bring him before and magistrate in India.	None
PROCEDURES REQUIRED TO BE FOLLOWED AFTER A PERSON IS ARRESTED.	None
The requirement to arrest a person for the purpose of his extradition is in two categories  (1) the cases in which India has an Extradition Treaty with the concerned country and (ii) those in which no such extradition treaty exits.	None
In the former category of cases the provisions of Chapter III of the Act shall apply.	None
Arrest, as noticed hereinbefore, is made by the police authorities in terms of endorsed warrant whereafter the procedure laid down in Section 17 is to be followed by reason whereof the fugitive criminal is to be brought by the Magistrate.	None
Once the Magistrate satisfies that the fugitive criminal has been brought before him in terms of an endorsed warrant which is duly authenticated and that the offence is an extraditable one, the Magistrate shall commit the fugitive criminal to prison.	None
A certificate of committal is thereafter sent to the Central Government.	None
Section 17 states that the endorsed warrant in the case of the person who is brought before whom is duly authenticated and that the offence with which the person is accused of or has been convicted in an extradition offence, the magistrate shall commit the fugitive criminal to prison to await his return and shall forthwith send to the Central Government a certificate of the committal.	None
Appellant is sought to be apprehended for commission of an offence under Section 363 of the Indian Penal Code.	None
We have noticed hereinbefore that it is an extraditable offence, provided it is not a pure matrimonial dispute.	None
C.B.I. for intent and purport exercises the power of NCB in terms of the Treaty and thus derive its authority from INTERPOL itself.	None
B.I. is thus the designate of the INTERPOL in India and endorsing warrants is an essential attribute of the procedure for the implementation of the Treaty.	None
The Ministry of Home Affairs by a circular letter dated 18th March, 1949 issued to all State Governments and Union Territories established the Intelligence Bureau as the ICPOINTERPOL, the National Central Bureau for India.	None
The C.B.I. was established as the representative of India for the purpose of correspondence with ICPOINTERPOL by reason of a circular letter dated 17th October, 1966.	None
We have noticed hereinbefore that by a Resolution dated 1st April, 1963 the Government of India gave to the C.B.I. the powers of Investigation of crimes, handled by the Intelligence Bureau of the SPE and for participation as the NCB in the work connected with the INTERPOL.	None
It is of significance to notice that C.B.I. in its website maintains that it handles all procedures related to Extradition and Issuance of Interpol Notices.	None
We have proceeded on the basis that the power of C.B.I. and its delegated authority namely, the State police to keep a person under surveillance arrest him in terms of warrant of arrest issued by a foreign country and Red Corner Notice is an absolute one.	None
Similarly the power to find out a missing person in terms of the Yellow Notice is also absolute.	None
However, the question in regard to the necessity of warrant being endorsed or the effect of the Red Corner Notice visvis the fundamental right of an individual in terms of Article 21 of the Constitution of India as also his right of privacy and the loss of reputation would be dealt with at an appropriate stage.	None
POWERS UNDER THE CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE	None
We may also notice some of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure laying down the procedures after arrest.	None
It is, however, beyond any doubt that the power is exercised by the C.B.I. or a police officer to arrest a person, although no warrant is issued in terms of Section 41(1)(g) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	None
It presupposes satisfaction of a police officer to arrest a person, if he has been concerned in, or against whom a reasonable complaint has been made, or credible information has been received in, any act committed at any place out of India which, if committed in India, would have been punishable as an offence, and for which he is, under any law relating to extradition, or otherwise, liable to be apprehended or detained in India.	None
However, the CBI website states that in case an action is taken under S. 41(1)(g), the matter must be immediately referred to the Interpol Wing for onward transmission to the Government of India to take a decision or otherwise.	None
In terms of the aforementioned provisions, sanction of the Central Government is contemplated.	None
We may, however, place on record that strictly construed in a case involving extradition, Section 41(g) of the Code may not have any application.	None
It is sought to be clarified that Section 41(g) of the Code of Criminal Procedure clearly contemplates the power of the Police to arrest under any law relating to Extradition thereby contemplating the exercise of powers subject to the provisions of the Extradition Act.	None
Thus the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure are subject to those in the Act.	None
LIMITATION OF POWER OF C.B.I. AND STATE POLICE Jurisdiction of CBI in Red Corner Notice In its affidavit filed on 23rd January, 2009 by C.B.I. stated as under 3(a)	None
The answering Respondent being the functionary of Interpol, New Delhi (Central Bureau of Investigation) submits that it works as an interface between Interpol Secretariat Genral, France, Interpol member countries and various law enforcement agencies of India.	None
(b) with regard to location and apprehension of a wanted fugitive, the role of the answering Respondent is to circulate the red corner notice issued by Interpol Secretariat General at the behest of any member country within India.	None
In order to trace a fugitive criminal, who might have left his her country, an Interpol Red Corner Notice is got issued through IPSG (Interpol Secretariat General) at Lyon, France based on an arrest warrant issued by the competent judicial authority.	None
Red Corner Notice is sent to the immigration border control authorities of various countries, who may detain identify such individual depending upon provisions of their domestic laws and inform the requesting country and authorities concerned for further necessary action.	Reasoning
The domestic legal provisions differ from country to country and while some countries have accorded legal sanctity to Red Corner Notice, others do not do so.	None
Once the fugitive is located on the basis of a Red Corner Notice, the concerned law enforcement agency is required to send a request for provisional arrest followed for extradition request duly accompanied by all necessary documents to the concerned country through diplomatic channels.	None
The requesting country may also make a deportation request.	Reasoning
A red corner notice is supported by an arrest warrant issued by the competent judicial authority which empowers the law enforcement agency of any member country to take follow up action with regard to the arrest of the fugitive criminal.	Reasoning
The National Central Bureau of other countries (member countries of INTERPOL) also a request the IPSG for issuance of Red Corner Notices against their wanted subjects and all the member countries take action for the location, arrest and extradition deportation for the same as per its law of the land.	None
Similarly the Interpol General Secretariat publishes Yellow Notice to help missing persons, often minors, or to help identify persons who are unable to identify themselves.	None
Once a person is detained pursuant to a red corner notice, he is produced before the Magistrate and then further action is taken as per the provisions of the Extradition Act, 1962.	None
The question is as to whether the consequences of the Red Corner Notice contravene the civil liberty of a citizen in terms of Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India.	None
Before, however, we devolve thereupon, we may notice the Executive Powers of the Union.	None
Any action taken by the Union of India through the Ministry of External Affairs or the C.B.I., on the request of INTERPOLS Executive Power as contained in Article 73 of the Constitution.	None
We have noticed heretobefore the relevant entries in the Legislative List being Entry Nos. 8, 10 to 14 and 18 of List  1 of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution.	None
We may also notice that in regard to the matter relating to criminal law the Concurrent List provides therefor in Entry Nos. 1 and 2 which read Criminal law, including all matters included in the Indian Penal Code at the commencement of this Constitution but excluding offences against laws with respect to any of the matters specified in List I or List II and excluding the use of naval, military or air forces or any other armed forces of the Union in aid of the civil power.	None
Criminal procedure, including all matters included in the Code of Criminal Procedure at the commencement of this Constitution.	None
Indisputably the Central Government has no jurisdiction over the police which is contained in Entry 2 of List II of the Seventh Schedule.	None
It includes railway and village police, subject to the provisions of Entry 2A of List I, which reads as under 2A. Deployment of any armed force of the Union or any other force subject to the control of the Union or any contingent or unit thereof in any State in aid of the civil power powers, jurisdiction, privileges and liabilities of the members of such forces while on such deployment.	None
Does this violates the doctrine of federalism is the question?	None
The power of the Central Government visvis State is in two categories.	None
The police power of the State in respect of any offence committed in a State comes within the legislative competence of the State.	None
The State may exercise some extra territorial jurisdiction only if a part of the offence is committed in the State and the other part in another State or some other States.	None
In such a event the State before an investigation to that part of the offence which has been committed in any State may have to proceed with the consent of the concerned State or must work with the police of the other State.	None
Its jurisdiction over the investigation into a matter is limited.	None
Keeping in view the various entries contained in List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, there cannot be any doubt whatsoever that in the matter of investigation of the matter committed in a State, the jurisdiction of the Central Government is excluded.	None
Extradition of a fugitive criminal from India to any other foreign country, irrespective of the fact as to whether any treaty has been entered into or with that country, is within the exclusive domain of the Central Government.	None
The extradition of a person from India to any other foreign country is covered by the Parliament Act, namely the Act.	Reasoning
Keeping in view the Constitution of INTERPOL visvis the Resolutions adopted by the C.B.I. from time to time, although a Red Corner Notice per se does not give status of a warrant of arrest by a competent court.	None
It is merely a request of the issuing authority to keep surveillance on him and provisionally or finally arrest the wanted person for extradition.	None
The provisions of the Act and the Treaty are required to be given effect to.	None
Whenever a request is received from INTERPOL the authority must act on behalf of the Central Government.	None
The INTERPOL provides constitution of NCBs by Member States.	None
All Members are required to constitute NCBs which should be an authority within the meaning of the provisions of INTERPOL for coordination of the functioning within the Member States and or the INTERPOL in case of any request received.	None
Location of a missing person and or tracing the whereabouts of a fugitive criminal is not an easy task.	None
The authority within the meaning of the words of the INTERPOL must act in cooperation with the State police.	None
For the said purpose it may have to request more than one States.	None
A missing person or a fugitive criminal may move from one State to another.	None
In such a case it is not possible for one State to find out the missing person or fugitive criminal.	None
B.I., although constituted under the DSPE Act its functions are multiple.	None
While acting in terms of the provisions, in particular Sections 3 and 5 of the DSPE Act, it acts as an investigating officer.	None
The Act contemplates commission of the offences of the nature specified in the Act or those specified in several Notifications issued from time to time.	None
In terms of Section 3 of DSPE Act first information reports are required to be lodged.	None
For the said purpose, the C.B.I. which has several branches all over India is an officer incharge of a police station within the meaning of Section 154 of the Code of Criminal procedure.	None
The authority specified in the DSPE Act, namely the Superintendent of Police of C.B.I. is an officer entitled to carry out any investigation.	None
Only when an investigation is carried out in relation to an offence which has been committed in a State and not in the Indian territory or within the territorial jurisdiction of the Central Government the consent of the State concerned is required to be obtained.	None
We are not concerned, as it is not necessary for us to determine, whether a direction for making investigation by the C.B.I. by the superior courts of the country is permissible.	None
As the law stands, we place on record such directions by the superior courts are permissible.	None
B.I. has different roles to play.	None
When it acts as NCB, being a department of CBI, it acts under a Treaty.	None
It acts in terms of the constitution of the INTERPOL.	None
It acts as a authority of the Central Government.	None
By reason of such an act it does not carry out investigation, although it is entitled therefor.	None
It functions as an NCB which is to give effect to the request received from INTERPOL and or foreign country.	None
When it does so, indisputably it has to apply its mind.	None
It can take any action only because it is lawful to do so.	None
It does not exercise absolute discretion.	None
It has to act if a case therefor has been made out including the question as whether any extraditable offence has been made out.	None
For the aforementioned purpose it does not Act as an agency within the four corners of the DSPE Act.	None
It acts, it will be a repetition to state, has an authority of the Central Government.	None
The limitation of its powers having regard to the provisions of Section 5 of DSPE Act as also some of the decisions of this Court, therefore, in our opinion, cannot be said to have any application in the facts and circumstances of this case.	None
B.I., therefore, is entitled to organize and coordinate in regard to the request made by INTERPOL.	None
It may have to obtain endorsed warrant.	None
It may have to give provisional warrant in terms of Section 34B of the Act.	None
Surveillance per se under the provisions of the Act may not violate individual or private rights including the right to privacy.	None
Right to privacy is not enumerated as a Fundamental Right either in terms of Article 21 of the Constitution of India or otherwise.	None
It, however, by reason of a elaborate interpretation of this Court in Kharak Singh v. State of U.P. and others, (1964) 1	None
SCR 332 it was held to be an essential ingredient of personal liberty.	None
This Court, however, in Govind v. State of Madhya Pradesh (1975) 2 SCC 148 upon taking an elaborate view of the matter in regard to right to privacy visvis the Madhya Pradesh Police Regulations dealing with surveillance, opined that the said regulation did not violate the procedure established by law.	None
However, a limited Fundamental Right to Privacy as emanating from Articles 19(a), (d) and 21 was upheld, but the same was held to be not absolute wherefor reasonable restrictions could be placed in terms of clause (5) of Article 19.	None
Mathew, J. stated The right to privacy in any event will necessarily have to go through a process of casebycase development.	None
Therefore, even assuming that the right to personal liberty, the right to move freely throughout the territory of India and the freedom of speech create an independent right of privacy as an emanation from them which one can characterize as a fundamental right, we do not think that the right is absolute.	None
The law, however, was developed by this Court in R. Rajagopal v. State of Tamil Nadu (1994) 6 SCC 632 .	None
The law was crystallized in the Peoples Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) v. Union of India (1997) 1 SCC 301 , holding We have, therefore, no hesitation in holding that right to privacy is a part of the right to life and personal liberty enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution.	None
Once the facts in a given case constitute a right to privacy, Article 21 is attracted.	None
The said right cannot be curtailed except according to procedure established by law.	None
In State of Maharashtra v. Madhukar Narayan Mardikar (1991) 1 SCC 57 , this Court protected the Right to Privacy of a prostitute.	None
It was held that even a woman of easy virtue is entitled to her privacy and no one can invade her privacy as and when he likes.	None
In this case, except giving information in regard to whereabouts of the Appellant and his daughter, no other action was taken.	None
It is in the aforementioned context, we may notice a decision of this Court in Malak Singh v. State of PH, (1981) 1 SCC 420 .	None
This case dealt with an application filed by applicants seeking to remove their names from the surveillance register maintained by the Police Station of their jurisdiction under the Punjab Police Rules.	None
This Court while upholding the jurisdiction of the Punjab Police made observations on the mode of surveillance.	None
The case directly or indirectly laid great emphasis on certain grey areas with regard to carrying out of the activities of surveillance on the part of the CBI and the police authorities.	None
In Malak Singh (supra) this Court clearly contemplated surveillance by the police in pursuance to the rules under which they are being done.	None
No such guideline, however, has been laid down in respect of surveillance conducted pursuant to a Red Corner or Yellow Corner Notice.	None
The Central Government and in particular the Ministry of External Affairs, in our opinion, should frame appropriate guidelines in this behalf.	None
Indisputably, further action in terms of the Red Corner Notice has not been and could not be taken against the Appellant, in the instant case.	None
It is conceded at the Bar that the proceedings for extradition of a citizen could be initiated provided the conditions precedent laid down in terms of the provisions of the Act.	None
The Act prescribes a request made by a foreign country whether with it a treaty has been entered into or not.	None
In the absence of any such request, no proceeding could be initiated.	None
In the aforementioned context, it is not necessary for us to enter into the question as to whether the Appellant could be arrested or not.	None
We have noticed hereinbefore, the affidavit affirmed on behalf of CBI while dealing with the question of the limitation of its power.	None
In addition thereto CBI has also stated that In the instant case, the averments of the appellant that prima facie the case arises out of a matrimonial dispute are all questions that are required to be gone into either by the Extradition Court appointed by the Central Government as per section 5 of the Act or subsequent to the Extradition of the Petitioner to the country in question.	None
In any event, there has been no arrest of the Petitioner as the CBI is awaiting the necessary papers from the American Government.	None
Also, the fact that India is not a party or signatory to the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction does not make any difference in the instant case.	Arguments of Petitioner
Furthermore, it is incorrect to say that the Petitioner is being treated like a commodity.	None
A warrant of arrest by a competent court in United States has been issued against the Petitioner.	None
Under International obligations, the CBI is required, when so requested to act on the red corner notice issued pursuant to the warrant of arrest.	None
If fugitives are not apprehended pursuant to the warrant of arrest red corner notice, it would be very easy for such persons to escape punishment.	None
The petitioner has rights under the Act as well as the judicial process in United States (if he is ultimately extradited).	None
Lastly, that till date the CBI has not received any request from the US authorities for the arrest and Extradition of the Petitioner.	None
The Ministry of External Affairs, too, through its Joint Secretary (Counsular), Mr. P.M. Meena, by means of an affidavit dated 15th April 2009 admitted that It is the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India, New Delhi which is the nodal agency for Extradition as per the Act and the Extradition Treaty between the Government of India and the United States of America.	None
On receipt of a Red Corner Notice, it is not the invariable practice to arrest the person but efforts are made to trace him though the local police.	None
The consideration of the question of arrest and Extradition would be within the framework of domestic law including Indian Extradition Act and the Extradition Treaty with the Requesting Country.	None
Extradition of a person would only arise after request for extradition is formally received from the country.	None
In the present case, no formal request has been received from the United States authorities.	None
Moreover, as per the prevalent practice, in cases pertaining to matrimonial affairs, the view taken is that such matters may not generally be held to satisfy the test of dual criminality.	None
In any case, since the instant case, is a case of domestic law, the view of the Ministry of Law would be called for and taken into consideration.	None
It is, therefore, clear that intervention by the Ministry of External Affairs is crucial when a request is received by it from a foreign country.	None
The learned Attorney General states before us that the Ministry of External Affairs invariably refers such matter to the Ministry of Law and Justice for his opinion as to whether in a given situation an extraditable offence has been made out or not.	None
We have been informed that kidnapping in case of matrimonial dispute per se is not considered to be an extraditable offence.	None
It was furthermore contended that even violation of an order passed by a court of competent jurisdiction in U.S.A. being punishable for imprisonment for six months only, the Appellant cannot be extradited for commission of the said offence also.	None
We may, however, place on record that United States has enacted the International Parental Kidnapping Crime Act of 1993.	None
However, the law in India shall be governed by the provisions of the Indian Penal Code, 1860.	None
CONCLUSIONWe have already held above that the Municipal Laws of a country reign supreme in matters of Extradition.	Decision
It is thus for the State concerned to take a decision in regard to such Notices, keeping in view the Municipal Laws of the country.	Decision
The High Court was, therefore, in our opinion, clearly wrong in holding that a Red Corner Notice should not be tinkered with.	Decision
When a person complains of a violation of his Fundamental Right and or otherwise of his fundamental right he is entitled to the right of judicial review.	Decision
It ought not to be forgotten here that the dispute between the Appellant and the Respondent No. 6, being essentially a Matrimonial dispute, is a private dispute and no criminal extraditable offence can be made out of the same, in the absence of a specific request for extradition.	Decision
The High Court, thus, in our opinion, committed a serious error insofar as it failed to take into consideration the provisions of the Act, in the absence of any request having being made by the Govt.	Decision
of USA	Decision
to the Executive Government of the Union of India or any authorization made by the latter on its behalf.	Decision
A fundamental Right of a citizen whenever infringes, the High Courts having regard to their extraordinary power under Article 226 of the Constitution of India as also keeping in view that access to justice is a human right would not turn them away only because a Red Corner Notice was issued.	Decision
The Superior Courts in criminal cases, thus are entitled to go into the manner in which such Red Corner Notice, if any, is sought to be enforced and or whether the local police is threatening a citizen of India with arrest although they are not entitled to do so except in terms of the provisions Act as and when applicable.	Decision
Furthermore, if a violation of any order passed by a civil court is made the ground for issuance of a Red Corner Notice, indisputably, the court will enquire as to whether the same has undergone the tests laid down under Sections 13 and 44A of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Decision
As regards the question of custody, we have, however noticed, hereinabove that although the family court at Bombay for all intent and purposes relying on or on the basis of the order passed by the Massachusetts Court directed custody of the girl in favour of her mother, the Bombay High Court has stayed the operation thereof.	Decision
The Appellant therefore, must be held to be in lawful custody of his daughter unless any other or further order is passed by a court of competent jurisdiction.	Decision
Lastly, it is imperative to note that the State does not seek for enforcement of the custody and or restrain order passed by the Probate and Family Court, Massachusetts in view of the rigours contained in Sections 13 and 44A of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Decision
Even the Family Court does not appear to have dealt with this aspect of the matter.	Decision
In any event, as the matter is pending before the High Court, it alone will have a final say therein.	Decision
For the aforementioned reasons, the impugned judgment cannot be sustained.	Decision
It is set aside accordingly.	Decision
The appeal is allowed.	Decision
However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
