 Lalit Mohan Sharma, CJI.	None
The respondents in these appeals have successfully contended before the High Court that the Wealth Tax Act, 1957 is not applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, inasmuch as Section 1(2) of the Act insofar as it extends the Act to Jammu and Kashmir, is ultra vires the power of Parliament.	Facts
The High Court has upheld their argument that in view of the special provisions contained in Article 370, the Parliament had no legislative competence to extend the Act to the State of Jammu and Kashmir The provisions in Article 370 (omitting the parts which are not relevant here) are in the following terms Temporary provisions with respect to the State of Jammu and Kashmir.  	Facts
(1) Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution,  (a) (b) the power of Parliament to make laws for the said State shall be limited to  those matters in the Union List and the Concurrent List which, in consultation with the Government of the State, are declared by the President to correspond to matters specified in the Instrument of Accession governing the accession of the State to the Dominion of India as the matters with respect to which the Dominion Legislature may make laws for that State and such other matters in the said Lists as, with the concurrence of the Government of the State, the President may by order specify (d) such of the other provisions of this Constitution shall apply in relation to that State subject to such exceptions and modifications as the President may by order specify.	None
By the Presidential order made under Article 370(1) called the Constitution (Application to Jammu and Kashmir) Order, 1954, the provisions of the Constitution of India were applied to the State of Jammu and Kashmir with several exceptions and modifications.	None
The words Notwithstanding anything in clauses (2) and (3) occurring in clause (1), and clauses (2) and (3) and (4) of Article 246 were omitted Article 248 and Entry 97 of List I, List II and List III (Concurrent List) of the Seventh Schedule too were omitted.	None
Thus the Parliament was vested with the power to make laws only with respect to the matters enumerated in Entries 1 to 96 of List I.	None
The residuary power was retained by the State.	None
Some modifications have been made from time to time in the 1954 Order, but they are not relevant for the present purpose and need not be noticed.	None
According to the respondents, the Act is relatable only and exclusively to Entry 97 of List I and since the said Entry has no application to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, application of the Act to their State is incompetent.	None
The High Court has upheld this contention.	None
If the above premise is correct, there is no doubt that these appeals should fail.	None
The appellant, however, submits that the Act, insofar as it applies to nonagricultural assets, is relatable to Entry 86 of List I and not to Entry 97.	None
It is common ground that the Act as applied to Jammu and Kashmir does not take in agricultural lands assets The Parliament has been vested, by Article 246(1) of the Constitution, with the exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List I of the Seventh Schedule.	None
Entry 86 of the Union List is in the following terms Taxes on the capital value of the assets, exclusive of agricultural land, of individuals and companies taxes on the capital of companies The Act as it was initially passed in 1957 did not apply to agricultural land.	None
It was only by an amendment in 1969 that the agricultural land was also brought within the purview of the Act The principal question that arises for consideration in these appeals is to which entry does the Act (minus the agricultural land) relate to  to Entry 86 as contended by the appellant or to Entry 97 as contended by the respondents ?	Issue
According to the learned counsel for the assesseerespondents the issue is concluded by the decision of a sevenJudge Bench of this Court in Union of India v. H. S. Dhillon.	Arguments of Respondent
According to them, the decision does lay down in unmistakable terms that the Act is covered by Entry 97.	Arguments of Respondent
Even on merits, they say, the Act is relatable to Entry 97 List I and not to Entry 86 of List I.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel for the appellants, on the other hand, say that Dhillon does not lay down any such proposition.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to them, the earlier decisions of the Constitution Benches holding the said Act as relatable to Entry 86 are in no manner shaken by Dhillon.	Arguments of Petitioner
They argued further that independent of any decision, the Act is clearly relatable only and exclusively to Entry 86 List I. Reliance upon Entry 97 of List I is necessary to sustain the extension of the Act to agricultural lands.	None
But inasmuch as the Act, as applied to the State of Jammu and Kashmir has no application to agricultural lands assets, Entry 97 is irrelevant in the present case, they say The Wealth Tax Act, 1957 was passed imposing a tax on the capital value of the netwealth of every individual, Hindu Undivided Family and company.	None
Section 3 provides for a tax in respect of netwealth on the corresponding valuation date.	None
The expression netwealth has been defined by Section 2(m) as the amount by which the aggregate value computed in accordance with the provisions of the Act of all the assets on the valuation date is in excess of the aggregate value of all the debts owed by the assessee.	None
Section 2(e) declares assets to include the property of every description movable or immovable excepting, agricultural land inter alia.	None
By Section 24 of the Finance Act, 1969 (Act 14 of 1969) agricultural land was prospectively included within the ambit of assets.	None
It would be instructive to examine the decisions of this Court dealing with the Act prior to the Amendment Act 14 of 1969 In Banarsi Das v. Wealth Tax Officer the contention raised was that under Entry 86 of List I of the Seventh Schedule, the Parliament was competent to levy tax only upon the wealth of individuals but not on the wealth of groups of individuals like HUF.	None
It was argued that tax on the wealth of Hindu Undivided Families cannot also be sustained with reference to Entry 97, inasmuch as the said entry refers to matters other than those specified in Entries 1 to 96 in List I.	None
Since the wealth tax falls expressly under Entry 86, it was argued, Entry 97 cannot be resorted to.	None
Entry 97 reads any other matter not enumerated in List II or List III including any tax not mentioned in either of those Lists.	None
This argument was repelled by a Constitution Bench of this Court holding that the word individuals in Entry 86 takes within its sweep groups of individuals like Hindu Undivided Families and that there was no basis for placing a restricted meaning upon the word individuals in the said entry.	None
The Court reiterated the wellestablished proposition that none of the items in the Legislative Lists of the Constitution is to be read in a narrow or restricted sense and that each general word should be held to extend to all ancillary or subsidiary matters which can fairly and reasonably be said to be comprehended in it.	None
Both the parties before the Court Proceeded on the basis that the Act is relatable to Entry 86 alone.	None
This was also the basis of the decision of the Court In Sudhir Chandra Nawn v. Wealth Tax Officer the constitutional validity of Section 7(1) of the Wealth Tax Act was challenged.	None
It was urged by the assesseepetitioners that Entry 86 of List I is, really, a tax upon lands and buildings  which tax can be imposed only by the State Legislature under Entry 49 of List II.	None
(Entry 49 of the List II reads as follows 49.	None
Taxes on lands and buildings).	None
The argument was that the capital value of the assets occurring in Entry 86 takes in the value of the lands and buildings and, therefore, the Parliament was not competent to levy tax on such assets.	None
This argument was repelled by a Constitution Bench of this Court holding that in the case of wealth tax, the charge is on the valuation of the total assets (inclusive of lands and buildings) minus the value of debts and other obligations which the assessee has to discharge  whereas, in the case of tax on lands and buildings, the value  capital or annual  would be determined by taking the land or building or both as a unit and subjecting the value of a percentage to tax.	None
It was observed Merely because in determining the taxable quantum under taxing statutes made in exercise of power under Entries 86, List I and 49, List II, the basis of valuation of assets is adopted, trespass on the field of one legislative power over another may not be assumed.	None
Shah, J. referred with approval to the decisions of High Court of Kerala (Khan Bahadur Chowakkaran Kelolth Mammad Keyi v. Wealth Tax Officer, Orissa (Vysyaraju Badri Narayanamurthy v. C.W.T., and Karnataka (Krishna Rao L. Balekai v. Third Wealth Tax Officer, holding that the power to levy tax on lands and buildings under Entry 49 List II does not trench upon the power conferred upon the Parliament by Entry 86, List I. Accordingly, the learned Judge held that the Wealth Tax Act is not ultra vires the powers of the Parliament.	None
The entire decision proceeded on the basis that the Wealth Tax Act is referable to Entry 86 of List I In Assistant Commissioner of Urban Land Tax, Madras v. Buckingham and Carnatic Co.	None
Ltd.	None
it was contended that the Madras Urban Land Tax Act, 1966 imposing a tax on urban land at a percentage of market value is outside Entry 49 of List II and falls within Entry 86 of List I and, therefore, the State Legislature was incompetent to enact the said law.	None
The argument was rejected.	None
It was pointed out that by a legislation in exercise of the power under Entry 86 of List I, tax is contemplated to be levied on the value of the assets (subject to certain deductions) whereas, for the purpose of levying tax under Entry 49 of List II, the State Legislature may adopt the annual or capital value of the lands and buildings as the basis for taxation.	None
It was also held that the adoption of the annual or capital value of lands and buildings for determining the tax liability under Entry 49 of List II will not amount to trenching upon the field reserved to the Parliament under Entry 86 of List I. Accordingly, the validity of the Madras Act was upheld Now to Dhillon.	None
The main contention urged by the learned counsel for the respondents calls for a close examination of the judgment to determine the ratio underlying it.	None
As stated hereinbefore, by Section 24 of the Finance Act, 1969, agricultural land was included within the meaning of the expression assets as defined in the Wealth Tax Act.	None
The validity of the Amending Act was challenged before the High Court of Punjab and Haryana on the ground that the Parliament was not competent to levy wealth tax upon agricultural land inasmuch as expressly excludes agricultural land from its purview.	None
The High Court upheld this submission by a majority of 4 to 1.	None
The Union of India filed an appeal before this Court which was heard by a Bench of seven Judges.	None
Three judgments were delivered  one by S. M. Sikri, C.J., for himself and for S. C. Roy and D. G. Palekar, JJ., holding the Amendment as valid second a separate but concurring judgment by G. K. Milter, J., and the third (the dissenting opinion) by J. M. Shelat, J., on behalf of himself and A. N. Ray and I. D. Dua, JJ.	None
The reasoning of Mr. Soli Sorabjee, learned counsel for the respondents runs as follows Shelat, J. (minority opinion) addressed himself pointedly to the question whether Entry 86 could be held to cover the enactment in question and the definite conclusion was that it did.	None
Since agricultural land has been excluded from the purview of Entry 86 in express terms, he held that Entry 97 cannot be relied upon or resorted to sustain the amendment impugned therein.	None
Accordingly, he concluded that the amending Act was ultra vires the powers of the Parliament.	None
Mitter, J. on the other hand, declared in unhesitating terms that Entry 86 did not cover either the Act as originally enacted or as amended by Act 24 of 1969.	None
Sikri, C.J., no doubt, adopted a different approach altogether.	None
According to the learned Chief Justice, it was not really necessary to examine whether the impugned amendment is relatable to Entry 86 or 97 of List I the correct approach was to find out whether the impugned Act related to any of the entries in List II and if it did not, no further enquiry was needed to be made and Parliament must be held to be competent to enact the impugned legislation.	None
On this reasoning, the impugned Act was held intra vires the Parliament.	None
In view of this finding it was unnecessary for the learned Chief Justice to go into the question whether the impugned amendment is relatable to Entry 86 or 97 of List I, but even then he thought it appropriate to do so as otherwise the minority view would have become binding on the principle affirmed in V. Padmanabha Ravi Varma Raja v. Dy.	None
Tahsildar, Chittur 1963 AIR(Ker) 155 1963 Ker LT 15 1963 (1) ILR(Ker) 84), M. B. Thakar v. S. P. Pande 1964 AIR(Bom) 170 65	None
Bom LR 674 1964 MLJ 157) and I.T.O. v. M. C. Ponnoose.	None
In this view of the matter, the learned Chief Justice expressly dealt with this issue and held that even the principal Act is relatable only to Entry 97 of List I. Particular emphasis is laid on the passage at p. 73G to p. 74E of the judgment published in the Supreme court Reports (SCC pp. 807 to 808, paras 83 to 86).	None
This opinion, supported as it is by the opinion of Mitter, J., concludes the issue  says Mr. Sorabjee Mr. Sorabjee further contended that whatever has been said in the judgment of Mitter, J., must be treated to be the majority view.	None
In support of this proposition, Mr. Sorabjee relied upon the observations in Guardians of Poor v. Guardians of Poor ((1889) 24 QBD 117, 120) and Overseers of Manchester v. Guardians of Ormskrik Union ((1890) 24 QBD 678, 682).	None
Describing the views expressed by D.D. Basu on Article 141 in his Commentary on the Constitution of India (6th edn., Volume H, at pages 14 and 15) as the correct approach of interpreting a judgment where the Judges holding the majority give independent judgments.	None
Mr. Sorabjee contended that when one of the judges expounds the law on a particular point, but others do not openly dissent from it, it must be taken that all the judges concurring in the majority decision agreed to that exposition.	None
He relied on the following observations from the case of Guardians of Poor v. Guardians of Poor ((1889) 24 QBD 117, 120) We know that each of them considers the matter separately, and then they consider the matter jointly, interchanging their judgment, so that every one of them has seen the judgments of others.	None
If they mean to differ in their view, they say so openly when they came to deliver their judgments and if they do not do this, it must be taken that each of them agrees with the judgments of the others.	None
The learned counsel also recommended adoption of the practice followed in England for considering the Judgments of the House of Lords indicated in case of Overseers of Manchester v. Guardians of Ormskrik Union ((1890) 24 QBD 678, 682) in the following terms Where in the House of Lords one of the learned Lords gives an elaborate explanation of the meaning of a statute, and some of the other learned Lords present concur in the explanation, and none express their dissent from it, it must be taken that all of them agreed in it.	None
By way of further elaboration Mr. Sorabjee contended that this principle is applicable even to the views of dissenting judges, unless the majority opinion expressly disagrees with the same.	None
He referred to the decision in Rustom Cavasjee Cooper v. Union of India as an illustration of this proposition where the observations in the judgment of Ray, J. cannot be treated to be the majority view for the reason that at page 561G reservation was expressed by Shah, J. in express terms.	None
The argument, therefore, is that since in the judgment of Sikri, C.J. we do not find any dissent or reservation from the views of Mitter, J. on the nonapplicability of Entry 86 of the Wealth Tax Act, the said view must be treated to be that of all the four judges forming the majority.	None
Reliance was also placed on paragraph 20 of the judgment in Ramesh Birch v. Union of India 1989 (1) Supp(SCC) 431)	None
Dr. Gauri Shankar, on the other hand, submitted that the question as to which entry covered the Wealth Tax Act as originally enacted did not arise decision in the case at all and that the controversy in Dhillon was confined to the validity of Section 24 of the Finance Act, 1969 insofar as it amended the provisions of the Wealth Tax Act.	None
According to him, the judgment of Sikri, C.J., did not finally determine the issue which entry covered the main Act.	None
The observations relied upon in the judgment of Sikri, C.J., are mere passing observations in the nature of loud thinking.	None
They do not carry the force of precedent.	None
They must be treated as obiter.	None
Mr. Solicitor General, while adopting the approach of Dr. Gauri Shankar, proceeded further to deal with the principle relating to precedents.	None
He referred to Basus Commentary (Vol. H, at pages 16 and 17) and relied on Stephen Commentaries (Vol.	None
I, p. 11) stating The underlying principle of a judicial decision which forms its authoritative element for the future, is termed ratio decidendi.	None
It is contrasted with an obiter dictum or that part of a judgment which consists of the expression of the judges opinion on a point of law which is not directly raised by the issue between the litigants.	None
The learned counsel also referred to the oftquoted proposition that every judgment must be read as applicable to the particular facts proved or assumed and the generality of the expressions used must be read as qualified by the particular facts of the case and the issues raised therein.	None
The learned Solicitor General also placed reliance on the decisions in the State of Orissa v. Sudhansu Sekhar Misra Additional District Magistrate, Jabalpur, v. Shivakant Shukla ( 1976 (2) SCC 521 , 714, para 474)	None
Sreenivasa General Traders v. State of A.P. and Rajput Ruda Meha v. State of Gujarat During the course of the hearing, the counsel placed learned and interesting arguments dealing with the rules relating to precedents as mentioned above, and attempt was made to distinguish the foreign judgments on the ground that Article 141 of the Constitution of India in mandatory terms lays down that the law declared by the Supreme Court shall be binding on all courts within the territory of India.	None
It was also suggested that the expression courts within the meaning of Article 141 does not include Supreme Court and the Supreme Court is not bound by its own decisions (Punjab Land Development and Reclamation Corpn.	None
Ltd. v. Presenting Officer Labour Court.	None
We have also examined all the three judgments given in Dhillon case placed by the learned advocates in great detail and analysed at considerable length and since in our view the majority judgment cannot be understood to have recorded a concluded opinion on the applicability of Entry 86 to the main Wealth Tax Act, we do not think it necessary to deal with the elaborate arguments on the rules for interpreting the judgments.	None
We now proceed to indicate our reasons As mentioned earlier, the challenge in Dhillon case was limited to Section 24 of the Finance Act, 1969 insofar it amended the relevant provisions of the Wealth Tax Act, 1957.	Reasoning
Initially the value of agricultural land was exempt from the charge of wealth tax.	Reasoning
The exemption was withdrawn by this amendment.	Reasoning
This was challenged as ultra vires by the assessee H. S. Dhillon and the High Court agreed with him.	Reasoning
The judgment was appealed against by the Union of India.	Reasoning
Mr. Setalvad, appearing in support of the appeal, contended that the impugned Act was not a law with respect to any Entry (including Entry 49) in List II and if this was so it must necessarily fall within the legislative competence of Parliament.	Reasoning
He reminded the Court that the Parliament was competent to legislate with respect to Entry 86 read with Entry 97 or Entry 97 by itself read with Article 248 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The argument was being addressed, pointedly with reference to the impugned Act i.e., the Finance Act, 1969.	Reasoning
Mr. Setalvad urged that the proper way of testing the validity of a parliamentary statute in our Constitution was first to see whether the parliamentary legislature was with respect to a matter or tax mentioned in List II if it was not, no other question would arise.	Reasoning
This approach was taken note of by the judgment of Sikri, C.J. in the last paragraph of page 45 and second paragraph at page 46 of the Supreme Court Reports.	Reasoning
(SCC p. 787, paras 8 and 10).	Reasoning
The judgment read as a whole including the passage, which has been relied upon by Mr. Sorabjee, in our view leads to the irresistible conclusion that Sikri, C.J. accepted the line suggested by Mr. Setalvad and, therefore, it did not remain necessary for the learned Chief Justice to express a final opinion as to the particular Entry covering the Wealth Tax Act.	Reasoning
In the very next paragraph at page 46, Sikri, C.J. said (SCC p. 788, para 11)	None
It seems to us that the best way of dealing with the question of the validity of the impugned Act and with the contentions of the parties is to ask ourselves two questions first, is the impugned Act legislation with respect to Entry 49 List II ?	None
and secondly, if it is not, is it beyond the legislative competence of Parliament ?	None
The learned Chief Justice did not stop at that.	None
He proceeded to say further (SCC p. 788, para 12)	None
We have put these questions in this order and in this form because we are definitely of the opinion, as explained a little later, that the scheme of our Constitution and the actual terms of the relevant articles, namely, Article 246, Article 248 and Entry 97 List I, show that any matter, including tax, which has not been allotted exclusively to the State Legislatures under List II or concurrently with Parliament under list III, falls within List I, including Entry 97 of that list read with Article 248.	None
In his learned judgment, Sikri, C.J. considered the constitutional scheme specially with reference to Articles 246, 248, 250 and 253 and Section 104 of the Government of India Act, 1935.	None
While considering the Constituent Assembly Debates and other relevant documents dealing with the process which ultimately led to the making of the Constitution as it was finally adopted the following interpretation of Dr. B. R. Ambedkar was specially referred to Anything not included in List II or III shall be deemed to fall in	None
List I.	None
Besides, constitutions of several foreign countries as also many decisions were discussed and the conclusion reached in the following words at page 72G of the Reports (SCC p. 807, para 82)	None
In our view the High Court was right in holding that the impugned Act was not a law with respect to Entry 49 List II, or did not impose a tax mentioned in Entry 49 List II.	None
If that is so, then the legislation is valid either under Entry 86 List I, read with Entry 97 List I, or Entry 97 List I, standing by itself.	Reasoning
It was only after arriving at the conclusion finally that the question whether the impugned Act (we will prefer to call it as the Finance Act, 1969) fell within Entry 86 List I, read with Entry 97 List I, or Entry 97 List I alone, was adverted to and while so doing the fact that it was necessary to decide this issue was taken note of.	Reasoning
Mr. Sorabjee is right that the observations in this part of the judgment from p. 73G to p. 74E (SCC pp. 80708, paras 83 to 86) were made in view of the judgment of Shelat, J. on Entry 86, and these observations were critical of the minority view on Entry 86, but the respondents before us are failing to appreciate that a critical comment made on a certain statement does not, in absence of an expression to that effect, necessarily lead to the inference that the converse is true.	Reasoning
It may mean that the statement requires further consideration or that the grounds given in support of the statement are fallacious or inadequate or that the matter requires a fuller examination and until that is done, the assumed correctness of the statement cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
The basic rules of interpreting Court judgments are the same as those of construing other documents.	Reasoning
The only difference is that the judges are presumed to know the tendency of parties concerned to interpret the language in the judgments differently to suit their purposes and the consequent importance that the words have to be chosen very carefully so as not to give room for controversy.	Reasoning
The principle is that if the language in a judgment is plain and unambiguous and can be reasonably interpreted in only one way it has to be understood in that sense, and any involved principle of artificial construction has to be avoided.	Reasoning
Further, if there be any doubt about the decision, the entire judgment has to be considered, and a stray sentence or a casual remark cannot be treated as a decision.	Reasoning
Examined in this light, the judgment of learned Chief Justice indicates that the main question agitating him mind was  if levy of wealth tax on agricultural land is not within the purview of List II, if it is not warranted by any Entry in List III and if it is also not within the purview of Entry 86 of List I, then which is the authority competent to levy it ?	Reasoning
Evidently, there cannot be a subjectmatter or tax, which no legislature under the Constitution can levy.	Reasoning
Accordingly, he held, the said tax is warranted by Entry 97 of List I read with Article 248.	Reasoning
The question, whether the Wealth Tax Act (without reference to the impugned Finance Act, 1969) falls within Entry 86 did not arise for consideration and was not answered but left undetermined, by the learned Chief Justice, though Mitter, J., did certainly express himself on it.	Reasoning
A reference to other parts of the very passage relied upon by Mr. Sorabjee as indicated below, will be helpful After pointing out two or three features which, in the opinion of Sikri, C.J., were inconsistent with the views of Shelat, J., the judgment stated Therefore, it seems to us that the whole of the impugned Act clearly falls within Entry 97 List I.	None
At the cost of repetition we would like to point out that the impugned Act was the 1969 Amendment Act.	Reasoning
The distinction between the Amendment Act and the original Wealth Tax Act was always present in the mind of the learned Chief Justice as is clear from the very next sentence, which reads thus We may mention that this Court has never held that the original Wealth Tax Act fell under	Reasoning
Entry 86 List I.	Reasoning
It was only assumed that the original Wealth Tax fell within Entry 86 List I and on that assumption this entry was analysed and contrasted with Entry 49 List II.	Reasoning
Mr. Sorabjee laid great emphasis on the above sentences and urged that an inference should be drawn therefrom about the majority view holding that Entry 86 was not attracted.	Reasoning
We do not agree with him.	Reasoning
In his judgment Shelat, J. had referred to several decisions in favour of holding Entry 86 applicable and the last sentence quoted above, was only a comment on that part of the judgment.	Reasoning
Besides, there is further indication given in the very next sentence, which, in our view, reiterates the conclusion already reached and recorded at page 72G (quoted above) and that is in the following words (SCC p. 807, para 82) Be that as it may, we are clearly of the opinion that no part of the impugned legislation falls within	Reasoning
Entry 86 List I.	Reasoning
In the next paragraph the permissibility of the Parliament combining its powers under Entry 86 with its powers under Entry 97 was considered and answered in the affirmative.	None
This was apparently the conclusion made at page 72G (SCC p. 807, para 82) (quoted above) that the legislation should be held to be valid under Entry 86 List I, read with Entry 97 List	None
I	None
We, therefore, interpret the judgment of Sikri, C.J. (on behalf of himself and two other learned Judges) as holding that  The proper way of testing the validity of a parliamentary statute under our Constitution was first to see whether the parliamentary legislation was with respect to a matter or tax mentioned in List II if it was not, no other question will arise The impugned Act was not a law with respect to Entry 49 List II or for that matter any other entry in that list Consequently the legislation (that is the 1969 Amendment Act) was valid either under Entry 86 List I read with Entry 97 (List I, or Entry 97 List I standing by itself	None
It was not necessary to decide the question whether the impugned Act fell within Entry 86 List I read with Entry 97 List I, or Entry 97 List I alone There were several fallacies in the reasoning of the minority judgment holding Entry 86 applicable, and the assumption made therein that this question was settled earlier by this Court was not correct Be that as it may, so far as the impugned legislation (the 1969 Amendment Act) was concerned, it did not fall within Entry 86	None
There is nothing in the Constitution to prevent the Parliament from combining its powers under Entry 86 List I with its powers under Entry 97, List I We, therefore, hold that the issue, whether the Wealth Tax Act, 1957 falls in Entry 86 or not, was not finally decided in the judgment of Sikri, C.J., and was left open for future when such an occasion arose.	None
While so doing certain observations critical to the views of Shelat, J. were expressed but merely on account of this, Dhillon judgment cannot be treated to be a binding precedent preventing this Bench from considering the main issue on merits The position, therefore, is that the issue as to whether the Wealth Tax Act, 1957 (without amendment Act, 1969, as it has been conceded on behalf of the appellant to be inapplicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir), extends to the State of Jammu and Kashmir or not, is, as mentioned earlier, dependent on the question whether the Act falls under Entry 86, List I quoted in paragraph 3 above or not.	Reasoning
The residuary power in the case of Jammu and Kashmir is with the State and the cases relied upon by the parties are of no help The argument of Mr. Sorabjee is that the expression capital value of assets in Entry 86 does not signify the same thing as net wealth as defined in Wealth Tax Act.	Reasoning
For calculating the capital value of assets only the encumbrances which are charged on the assets, can be deducted from the market value of the assets, and not the general liabilities of the individual owning the assets, which are to be taken into account for the purpose of wealth tax.	Reasoning
Adopting the observations of H. J. Kania, J. (as he then was) in Sir Byramjee Jeejeebhoy v. Province of Bombay it was asserted that under Entry 86, the tax should be on the total capital assets and not on individual portions of a persons capital.	Reasoning
In Sir Byramjee case the relevant entry was Entry 55 in List I of the Government of India Act, 1935, similar to the present Entry 86.	Reasoning
The learned counsel pointed out that Bombay decision was approved by the Federal Court in Ralla Ram v. Province of East Punjab.	Reasoning
Reference was also made to the judgment in Municipal Commr., Municipal Corpn.	Reasoning
of the City of Ahmedabad v. Gordhandas Hargovandas 1954 AIR(Bom) 188,	Reasoning
194 55	Reasoning
Bom LR 1028 ILR 1954	Reasoning
Bom 41 ).	Reasoning
In support of his stand that Wealth Tax Act is covered by Entry 86 Dr. Gauri Shankar took us through the background in which the Wealth Tax Act was enacted.	Reasoning
He placed before us the legislative practice in other countries also as reported by OECD Committee on Fiscal Affairs and the discussion by Kaldor in his book Indian Tax Reforms.	Reasoning
Dealing with the deductions which are allowed under the Wealth Tax Act for liabilities and debts, the learned counsel proceeded to say that that is methodology of levy of this form of capital taxation adopted internationally.	Reasoning
Paragraph 1.39 of the OECD Committees Report stated Just as all assets to which a value can be attached should in principle be included in the tax base, so in principle all debts should be deducted from the taxpayers assets, in order to arrive at his net wealth.	None
In the next paragraph of the Report, the enquiry of allowing debts not related to the acquisition of assets is also discussed.	None
The learned counsel summed up by saying that the substance of the practice adopted in other countries and the economic concept underlying the theory of equimarginal sacrifice, which is called the ability to pay, is that there will be no true measure of a persons net worth unless from the gross aggregate capital value, deductions are given for liabilities and debts, and that is the rationale of Entry 86 as also that of the Wealth Tax Act We must, therefore, ascertain the correct nature of the tax under the Wealth Tax Act and the scope of Entry 86 by reference to the expressions capital value and assets.	Reasoning
It is firmly established that in construing the language of constitutional enactments conferring legislative power the most liberal construction should be put upon the words so that the same have effect in their widest amplitude.	Reasoning
(See Navinchandra Mafatlal v. CIT.	Reasoning
In Sri Ram Ram Narain Medhi v. State of Bombay his Court followed the approach indicated by the Privy Council in British Coal Corporation v. The King ( 1935 AC 500, 518 104 LJPC 58 1935 AIR(PC) 158) in the following words Indeed, in interpreting a constituent or organic statute such as the Act, that construction most beneficial to the widest possible amplitude of its powers must be adopted.	None
and further declared that the heads of legislation should not be construed in a narrow and pedantic sense but should be given a large and liberal interpretation.	None
It is also settled that for finding out the true nature and character of a taxing Act, the charging section has to be construed with the help of other relevant provisions.	None
In the case of the Wealth Tax Act Sections 3 to 7 read with Sections 2(e) and 2(m) have to be examined.	Reasoning
Section 3 levies an annual tax in respect of the net wealth on the valuation date on every individual etc.	Reasoning
at the rate specified in the schedule.	Reasoning
Section 7 mandates that the value for the purpose of charge shall be the value estimated to be the price which in the opinion of the assessing officer it would fetch if sold in the open market on the valuation date.	Reasoning
The expression net wealth is defined in Section 2(m) as the amount by which the aggregate value computed in accordance with the prescribed provisions, is in excess of the aggregate value of all the debts owned by the assessee.	Reasoning
Thus it appears that the tax is an annual levy on the total value of all assets owned by an assessee excluding exempted properties.	Reasoning
Such value is the price which the property would fetch if sold in the market in other words its capital value.	Reasoning
From the capital value, certain liabilities and debts are to be deducted to arrive at the net wealth.	Reasoning
The base of the tax is capital value and net wealth assessable is capital value after deductions of debts and liabilities.	Reasoning
The expression capital value of assets is not capable of any prescribed definition but as pointed out in Harvard Law School World Tax Series Taxation in the Federal Republic of Germany, quoted by Sikri, C.J. in his judgment (SCC p. 806, para 81) the taxes on capital which are summarised in this chapter are the net worth tax, the real property tax, and the capital levy under the Equalisation of Burdens Law.	None
The distinction between a netwealth tax levied upon a person and a tax on the property directly is pointed out in the same work in the following words (SCC p. 806, para 81) Some of the taxes on capital are deemed to be imposed on the person of the taxpayer while others are deemed to be imposed on an object.	None
Examples of the former are the net worth tax and the capital levy under the Equalisation of Burdens Law, while the real property tax and the trade tax on business capital are classified in the latter category.	None
The main importance of this distinction is that taxes in the first group presuppose a taxpayer with independent legal existence, that is, an individual or a legal entity (juridical person), while in the case of taxes in the second group, the taxable object itself is deemed liable for the tax, in addition to its owner, so that the taxpayer can be a partnership, association of the civil law, or other combination of persons without separate legal existence.	None
Taxes of the first type give consideration to the taxpayers ability to pay, while those of the second type consider merely the value of the taxable object, such as the capital of a business, in the case of the trade tax on business capital, or the assessed value of real property, in the case of the real property tax.	None
If we may point out with respect, Sikri, C.J. having quoted the above passage with approval at SCR page 72 SCC(p) 806, para 81) of Dhillon case says rather inexplicably at page 74 SCC(p) 808, para 86)	None
It seems to us that the other part of entry, i.e., tax on the capital of companies in Entry 86 List I also seems to indicate that this entry is not strictly concerned with taxation of net wealth because capital of a company is in one sense a liability of the company and not its asset.	None
Even if it is regarded as an asset, there is nothing in the entry to compel Parliament to provide for deduction of debts.	None
It would also be noticed that Entry 86 List I, deals only with individuals and companies but net wealth tax can be levied not only in individuals but on other entities and associations also.	None
It is true that under Entry 86 List I, aggregation is necessary because it is a tax on the capital value of assets of an individual but it does not follow from this that Parliament is obliged to provide for deduction of debts in order to determine the capital value of assets of an individual or a company.	None
According to the learned Chief Justice it is not incumbent on Parliament to provide for deduction of debts in ascertaining the capital value of the assets.	None
But, having said so, the learned Chief Justice does not proceed further and say that such deduction, if provided, changes the character of tax from a tax on capital value to something else.	Reasoning
Indeed, on principle, such a statement could not have been made or supported.	Reasoning
The learned Chief Justice repeatedly stated that the Parliament or the legislature need not provide for such deductions, but without carrying the thought to its logical conclusion, concluded that the whole of the impugned Act (which as pointed out hereinbefore means the Act 24 of 1969 amending the Wealth Tax Act) clearly falls within Entry 97 of List I.	Reasoning
We have already indicated in paragraph 16 earlier that the expression the whole of the impugned Act did not refer to the wealth tax as originally enacted.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the Wealth Tax Act (as originally enacted and extended to JK) is a netwealth tax Act imposed upon the individuals, group of individuals like HUF and companies.	Reasoning
The Tax is not upon the assets as such but is upon the individual and companies with reference to the capital value of the assets held by them.	Reasoning
As explained in Assistant Commissioner of Urban Land Tax v. Buckingham Carnatic Co. Ltd.	Reasoning
It is not a tax directly on the capital value of the assets of individuals and companies on the valuation date The tax under Entry 86 proceeds on the principle of aggregation and is imposed on the totality of the value of all the assets.	None
It is imposed on the total assets which the assessee owns and in determining the net wealth, not only the encumbrances specifically charged against any item of assets but the general liability of the assessee to pay his debts and to discharge his lawful obligations have to be taken into account.	None
This was also the view expressed in Nawn	None
The language of Entry 86 also clearly indicates that the tax is upon the individuals and not directly upon the assets or upon their value.	Reasoning
The wealth tax is determined with reference to the capital value of the assets minus the debts and other deductions mentioned in the Act.	Reasoning
We cannot accept the argument that since the tax is contemplated to be levied upon the capital value of the assets of an individual, the exclusion of his debts and other liabilities changes the nature and character of the tax.	Reasoning
Indeed, the learned counsel for the respondents could not suggest any enactment relatable to Entry 86 except the Wealth Tax Act It is argued for the respondents that capital value of the assets on a true interpretation can only mean market value of the assets minus any encumbrances charged upon the assets themselves.	Reasoning
The expression does not take in, it is submitted, general liabilities of the person owning them.	Reasoning
This argument, in our opinion, ignores the basic nature of the tax contemplated by Entry 86.	Reasoning
It is a tax upon the net wealth of an individual.	Reasoning
It is a netwealth tax.	Reasoning
Net wealth of an individual necessarily means what all he owns minus what all he owes  and this is what the Act purports to tax Mr. Sorabjee relied upon the decisions of the Bombay High Court in Sir Byramjee Jeejeebhoy v. Province of Bombay and Municipal Corporation, Ahmedabad v. Gordhandas 1954 AIR(Bom) 188,	None
194 55 Bom LR 1028 ILR 1954	None
Bom 41 ).	Reasoning
In the first case, the question was whether the Bombay Finance Act, 1932 which levied tax upon urban immovable property was outside the competence of the Bombay Legislature on the ground that the tax levied was one in the nature of Income Tax Act relatable to Entry 54 of the Federal List in VII Schedule to the Government of India Act, 1935.	Reasoning
All the three Judges constituting the Full Bench repelled the said argument.	Reasoning
In the course of their discussion they also referred to Entry 55 of the Federal List but that aspect did not arise in that case and, therefore, any passing observation made with respect to the content of the said entry cannot be of any assistance to us in this case.	Reasoning
Similarly, in Gordhandas 1954 AIR(Bom) 188, 194 55 Bom LR 1028 ILR 1954	Reasoning
Bom 41 ) the question was with respect to the power of the Bombay Municipal Corporation to levy tax on land.	Reasoning
The petitioners contentions were that the said tax falls outside Entry 42 of List II of VII Schedule to the 1935 Act (corresponding to Entry 49 of List II of our Constitution) and that the tax on land imposed by the said Act is really in the nature of tax contemplated by Entry 55 of the Federal List.	Reasoning
Reliance was placed upon the decision in Byramjee case.	Reasoning
The said argument was dealt with by Gajendragadkar, J. (as he then was) in the following words I have dealt with this question on the assumption that Entry 55 in List I confers jurisdiction on the Central Legislature to levy a tax on the capital value, not only of all the assets, but of even a part of the assets.	None
In Byramjee case a Full Bench of this Court had to consider the construction of Entry 54 in List I as against Entry 42 in List II.	None
Incidentally an argument was urged before the Full Bench even as to Entry 55 in List I. Chief Justice Beaumont said that it was unnecessary to consider the argument based on Entry 55 but, nevertheless, he observed that an analysis of the language employed in Entries 54 and 55 respectively affords scope for the argument that the assets mentioned in Entry 55 must mean the totality of the assets.	None
According to Mr. Justice Broomfield, the meaning of the expression capital value of the assets in Entry 55 was by no means clear.	None
He, however, added that it may be that what was intended was a tax on the total value of the assets in the nature of a capital levy.	None
Mr. Justice Kania, on the other hand, expressed his clear opinion that under Entry 55 the tax should be on the total capital assets and not on individual portions of a persons capital.	None
It was held that the said earlier decision in no manner supported the assessees contention Lastly, reference was made to the decision of this Court in New Manek Chowk Spng.	None
Wvg.	Reasoning
Mills Co. Ltd. v. Municipal Corporation.	Reasoning
In that case, it was held by this Court that Entry 49 in List II of VII Schedule permits levy of tax on lands and buildings but not on machinery installed on land or in the building.	Reasoning
It was held that Rule 7(2) of the Rules framed under Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporation Act, 1949 which provided that all plant and machinery contained or situated in any building or land shall be deemed to form part of such building or land was held to be beyond the legislative competence of the State.	Reasoning
We are unable to see how the principle of this decision is of any assistance to the respondents herein For the reasons mentioned above, we hold that the Wealth Tax Act, as originally enacted was covered by Entry 86 of List I of the Constitution, and its extension to the State of Jammu and Kashmir was perfectly constitutional and consequently the impugned judgment of the High Court is not correct.	Decision
Accordingly these appeals are allowed, the impugned judgment is set aside and the writ petitions filed before the Jammu and Kashmir High Court are dismissed but in the circumstances without costs.	Decision
