 Ashok Bhushan, J.1.	None
The State of Madhya Pradesh is in appeal against the judgment of Division Bench of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh, Bench at Gwalior dated 22.03.2017 by which judgment writ appeal filed by the State questioning the judgment of the learned Single Judge dated 17.03.2015 has been dismissed.2.	Facts
The parties shall be described as referred to in the writ petition.	Facts
The facts giving rise to this appeal areThe writ petitioners have permanent permit for two routes, one Gwalior to Bhander and second Gwalior to Datia.	Facts
Respondent No.3 has also the permanent permit for the route Gwalior to Jhansi.	Facts
Respondent No.3 preferred an application for modification of time schedule for movement of his vehicle.	Facts
The application of Respondent No.3 came for hearing before the State Transport Authority on 16.10.2014.	Facts
On the date of hearing both counsel for the applicant as well as counsel for the objectors were heard.	Facts
The State Transport Authority allowed the modification and decided to change the time schedule as prayed by the applicant in the public interest.	Facts
The order was issued by the State Transport Authority on 15.12.2014.	Facts
Aggrieved by the order dated 15.12.2014, Writ Petition No.883 of 2015 was filed by the two petitioners who were objectors before the State Transport Authority.	Facts
In the writ petition various grounds were taken questioning the application filed by the applicantPawan Arora.	Facts
One of the grounds taken before the learned Single Judge was that although the State Transport Authority heard the matter on 16.10.2014 consisted of Chairperson and two members, however, the order was delivered with the signatures of Chairperson and only one member, since one member, Shri Sanjay Choudhary was transferred in the meanwhile, hence, the order dated 15.12.2014 is illegal.	Facts
The learned Single Judge accepted the contention of the writ petitioners and allowed the writ petition by setting aside the order dated 15.12.2014.3.	Facts
The State of Madhya Pradesh filed writ appeal challenging the judgment of the learned Singe Judge.	Facts
The State contended before the Division Bench of the High Court that there was no illegality in the order issued by the Chairperson and one member, although, it was heard by three members when the meeting took place on 16.10.2014.	Facts
The Division Bench dismissed the appeal upholding the view of the learned Single Judge.4.	Facts
Learned counsel for the appellant in support of the appeal contends that under the Madhya Pradesh Motor Vehicles Rules, 1994 quorum of the meeting of the State Transport Authority is three Chairman plus two members and quorum was complete when the meeting was held on 16.10.2014, the decision delivered by the majority of the members is in no manner illegal.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that after hearing, one member was transferred and was not available to be part of the order issued on 15.12.2014.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that even it is assumed that one member was not agreeing with the decision of two other members, although, there is no such pleading or material on the record, the decision taken by the majority of the members was fully valid and there was no infirmity in the order dated 15.12.2014.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the learned Single Judge as well as Division Bench committed error in taking the view that the order dated 15.12.2014 was an illegal order.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the respondents supported the order of the High Court and contends that when one member who heard the matter on 16.10.2014 was not available, no decision could have been taken by the State Transport Authority.	Arguments of Respondent
He submits that the matter was heard by three members, hence decision could have been issued only by three members and the views taken by the learned Single Judge and Division Bench are in accordance with law.6.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the submissions of the learned counsel for the parties and perused the records.7.	None
The Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 provides for constitution of a State Transport Authority to exercise and discharge the powers and functions as specified in subsection (3) of Section 68.	None
Section 68(1) and 68(3) are quoted below68.Transport Authorities.	None
(1) The State Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute for the State a State Transport Authority to exercise and discharge the powers and functions specified in subsection (3), and shall in like manner constitute Regional Transport Authorities to exercise and discharge throughout such areas (in this Chapter referred to as regions) as may be specified in the notification, in respect of each Regional Transport Authority the powers and functions conferred by or under this Chapter on such AuthoritiesProvided that in the Union territories, the Administrator may abstain from constituting any Regional Transport Authority.(2)	None
(3) The State Transport Authority and every Regional Transport Authority shall give effect to any directions issued under section 67 and the State Transport Authority shall, subject to such directions and save as otherwise provided by or under this Act, exercise and discharge throughout the State the following powers and functions, namely (a) to coordinate and regulate the activities and policies of the Regional Transport Authorities, if any, of the State (b) to perform the duties of a Regional Transport Authority where there is no such Authority and, if it thinks fit or if so required by a Regional Transport Authority, to perform those duties in respect of any route common to two or more regions(c) to settle all disputes and decide all matters on which differences of opinion arise between Regional Transport Authorities(ca) Government to formulate routes for playing stage carriages and(d) to discharge such other functions as may be prescribed.8.	None
The Rules have been framed by the State of Madhya Pradesh, namely, the Madhya Pradesh Motor Vehicles Rules, 1994.	None
Chapter V of the Rules contains heading Control of Transport Vehicles.	None
Rule 63 provides for State Transport Authority.	None
Rule 63(4) to (7) are quoted as below63.	None
State Transport Authority.(4)	None
The State Transport Authority shall meet at such time and at such place as the Chairman may appoint.(5) Not less than three days notice shall be given to a member of the meeting of the State Transport Authority.(6)	None
The quorum to constitute a meeting of the State Transport Authority shall be the Chairman or the nominated Chairman under the subrule (7) and two other members (whether official or nonofficial).	None
If within hall an hour from the time appointed for the meeting a quorum is not completed, the meeting shall be adjourned to such day and at such time and place as the Chairman or the acting Chairman nominated under subrule (7) may appoint and no quorum is necessary for holding the adjourned meeting.(7)	None
The Chairman, if unable to attend the meeting, shall nominate a member to act as Chairman at the meeting.9.	None
Rule 64 provides for Regional Transport Authority and Rule 65 is for Conduct of Business of Transport Authorities.	None
Rule 65(2) to 65(4) are as follows65.	None
Conduct of Business of Transport Authorities.(2)	None
The State or Regional Transport Authority, as the case may be, may decide any matter of urgent nature without holding a meeting by the majority of votes of members by recorded in writing and send to the Secretary (hereinafter referred to as the procedure by circulation).(3)	None
In the event of procedure by circulation being followed, the Secretary shall send to each member of the Transport Authority such particulars of the matter as may be reasonably necessary in order to enable the member to arrive at a decision and shall specify the date by which the votes of members are to be received in the office of the Transport Authority.	None
Upon receipt of the votes of members as aforesaid, the Secretary shall lay the papers before the Chairman, who shall record the decision by endorsement on the form of application or other document, as the case may be, according to the votes received and the vote or votes cast by the Chairman.	None
The record of the votes cast shall not be available for inspection by any person save by a member of the Transport Authority at a regularly constituted meeting of the Transport Authority.	None
No decision shall be made upon procedure by circulation, if before the date by which the voles of members are required to reach the office of the Transport Authority, not less than onethird of the members of the Transport Authority have given notice in writing to the Secretary demanding that the matter be referred to a meeting of the Transport Authority.(4)	None
The number of votes, excluding the Chairmans second or casting vote, necessary for a decision to be taken upon procedure by circulation shall not be less than the members necessary to constitute a quorum.xxx xxx xxx xxx10.	None
The facts of the case, as noted above, reveal that State Transport Authority convened the meeting of the Authority by issuing the Agenda for 16.10.2014.	Facts
In addition to Chairperson, two members Shri Sanjay Chaudhary, Transport Commissioner and Shri Rajiv Sharma, Chief Engineer, Public Works Department were present in the meeting.	Facts
The applicant as well as the counsel for the objectors were heard on 16.10.2014.	Facts
The decision of the Committee was issued on 15.12.2014 which was signed by the Chairperson and only one member, Shri Rajiv Sharma, since, after the date of the hearing and before the issuance of the order one member, Shri Sanjay Chaudhary was transferred.	Facts
The copy of the order dated 15.12.2014 has been brought on record as Annexure P1 which clearly mentions the date of hearing, i.e., 16.10.2014.	None
It is useful to extract only the relevant parts of the order for the present caseTHE STATE TRANSPORT AUTHORITY,MADHYA PRADESH MOTIMAHAL, GWALIORAgenda Serial No.71Case No.2159/2014	Facts
Hearing on 16.10.2014Before1.Pramod Agrawal Principal Secretary, Madhya Pradesh Government Transport Department, BhopalChairperson2.Sanjay Chaudhary Transport Commissioner Madhya Pradesh, GwaliorMember3.Rajiv Sharma Chief Engineer Public Works Department, GwaliorMember Listing the aforesaid application submitted by the applicant for hearing in the meeting of the State Transport Authority dated 16.10.2014 the same was included in the agenda and published on the Departmental Website and the notice board of the Office and all regional additional regional District Transport Office.	Facts
The objections of the aforesaid Drivers were obtained until the aforesaid fixed date.	Facts
The case was presented in the meeting dated 16.10.2014 of the State Transport Authority.	Facts
On the day of hearing, on behalf of the parties their appointed counsels appeared, who were heard Note Since one member Shri Sanjay Chaudhary of the Authority was transferred after hearing, the aforesaid order is being passed by the Chairperson and one member Chief Engineer of the Authority.	Facts
Sd sd MemberMemberState Transport AuthorityState Transport AuthorityMadhya Pradesh11.	None
The only issue which needs to be considered in this appeal is as to whether, when in the meeting dated 16.10.2014 the Chairperson and two members had heard the application for the change of the time schedule, the order could have been passed allowing the application by the two members (Chairperson and one member) alone, since the order was singed only by the Chairperson and one member, on 15.12.2014.12.	Issue
The statutory provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 as well as the Madhya Pradesh Motor Vehicles Rules, 1994 indicate that the State Transport Authority is a multimember body constituted by the State Government under Section 68(1).	None
The State Transport Authority is a multimember body which transacts business in meeting except in case of emergency.	None
Meeting is to be convened at such time and at such place as the Chairman may appoint.	None
Three days notice is required to be given to the members and quorum of the meeting is the Chairman or the nominated Chairman and two other members, i.e., quorum is three.	None
In the present case, there is no dispute that when the meeting was held on 16.10.2014 quorum was complete since Chairperson and two members were present which fact is clearly noticed in the order dated 15.12.2014 as extracted above.	None
The three members who were present in the meeting heard the applicant and objectors.	Facts
But the order could be issued only on 15.12.2014, by which one of the members had been transferred and was not available to sign the order.	Facts
One more important fact which is to be noticed is that learned Single Judge had categorically noted that the above issue was raised only during the hearing before the learned Single Judge and there was no pleading in the writ petition.	Facts
In paragraph 16 of the judgment, learned Single Judge himself has noticed the following16.	None
The last question raised by the parties is about the competency of the STA in passing the impugned order.	None
Although there is no pleading in this regard in this petition.	Facts
However, learned senior counsel, Shri K.N. Gupta has not disputed the fact that the matter was heard by three members and order is passed by two members13.	Facts
The multimember body transacts its business after debate, consultation and discussion.	None
The view of multimember body is expressed unanimously or by votes.	None
For various kind of decisions by multimember body special majorities are also provided for acceptance of the decision.	None
Normally, all decisions of a multimember body are expressed by opinion of majority of the members present except where the special majorities are provided in the statute itself.14.	None
Shackleton on the Law and Practice of Meetings, Eleventh Edition while discussing the majority has stated following in paragraph 730.	None
Relevant parts of paragraphs 730 and 731 are quoted below MAJORITYDefinition730 Majority is a term signifying the greater number.	None
In legislative and deliberative assemblies, it is usual to decide questions by a majority of those present and voting.	None
This is sometimes expressed as a simple majority, which means that a motion is carried by the mere fact that more votes are cast for than against , as distinct from a special majority where the size of the majority is critical.	None
The principle has long been established that the will of a corporation or body can only be expressed by the whole or a majority of its members, and the act of a majority is regarded as the act of the whole.	None
A majority vote binds the minority731	None
Unless there is some provision to the contrary in the instrument by which a corporation is formed, the resolution of the majority, upon any question, is binding on the majority and the corporation, but the rules must be followed.15.	None
Although Rules, 1994 do not expressly provide that decision of the State Transport Authority shall be taken in accordance with the opinions of the majority but there being no special majority provided for decision to be taken in the meeting of the State Transport Authority, normal, rule that decision by majority of the members present has to be followed.	Reasoning
In the present case when three members were present and quorum was complete, the decision taken by majority, i.e., opinion of two members shall form the valid decision of the State Transport Authority.16.	Reasoning
Rule 65 subsection (2) of the Rules dealing with the conduct of business of Transport Authorities provides65(2)	None
The State or Regional Transport Authority, as the case may be, may decide any matter of urgent nature without holding a meeting by the majority of votes of members by recorded in writing and send to the Secretary (hereinafter referred to as the procedure by circulation).17.	None
Thus, the concept of taking decision by majority of votes of the members is very much present in the scheme of the Rules.	None
Although, where a decision is to be taken by the circulation by votes a special majority is provided in Rule 65(4) but present being not a case of decision by circulation, simple majority by members present was sufficient for making a binding decision by the State Transport Authority.18.	Reasoning
In paragraph 18.1 of the judgment, the Division Bench observed that18.1.	None
In the instant case there is nothing on record to indicate that the STA with complete quorum heard the matter and before one of the members Shri Sanjay Chaudhry was transferred out any draft order was got approved from the said transferred member.19.	Reasoning
The above observation was made by the Division Bench of the High Court while distinguishing the judgment of this Court in Ramaswamy Nadar v. The State of Madras, AIR 1958 SC 56 .	Reasoning
Before we refer to the decision of this Court in Ramaswamy Nadar, it is clear that observation of the Division Bench of the High Court that there is nothing on record to indicate that the quorum of State Transport Authority was complete, is factually wrong.	Reasoning
The order of the State Transport Authority dated 15.12.2014 has been brought on record as Annexure P1 and the relevant portion of the order has been extracted above by us which clearly mentions that the hearing took place on 16.10.2014 where the Chairperson and two members were present the quorum being three as per Rule 68(1) was complete.	Reasoning
The hearing took place by three members which is noted in the order itself, as extracted above.	Reasoning
Thus, observation of the Division Bench of the High Court that quorum was not complete and matter was not heard by three members is not correct.20.	Reasoning
Now, we come to the judgment of this Court in Ramaswamy Nadar(supra).	None
In the above case the matter was heard by a Bench of three Judges of this Court who after hearing had announced the decision of acquittal.	None
Draft judgment was also approved by one of the Judges who had, however, died before judgment could be delivered.	None
Note appended in the judgment was to the following effect NOTESINHA, J.When hearing of this appeal was finished last week by a Bench consisting of three of us, B.P. Sinha, P. Govinda Menon and J.L. Kapur, JJ., we announced that we had come to the conclusion that the appellant should be acquitted.	None
We also indicated that the judgment will be delivered the week following.	None
The draft of the judgment was sent to late Mr. Justice Menon last week and he had approved of it.	None
What we are now delivering are the reasons of the Judges who constituted the Bench but it will be signed by two only of us on account of the unexpected death of Mr. Justice.	None
Menon.	None
K.S.B.Appeal allowed.21.	None
In the above case judgment was pronounced with the concurrence of the three judges.	None
When the hearing took place opinion of all the three Judges was expressed but judgment could be singed by two Judges since one of the Judges died.	None
Although, the facts of the above case was little different i.e. there was material to indicate that the third Judge who could not sign had also concurred with the opinion, but in the present case there is no pleading of third member whether agreeing or not agreeing with the decision.	None
For the present case, we proceed on the premise that the third member did not agree with the decision.	None
For the decisions of this Court, Article 145 subclause (5) of the Constitution of India provides that judge of this Court can deliver a judgment with the concurrence of a majority of the Judges present at the hearing of the case.22.	None
The present is a case where decision by a multimember body is to be taken in the meeting of the Committee as per the statutory Rules.	Reasoning
There being no such majority provided for taking a decision, the decision by majority has to be accepted as the opinion of the State Transport Authority.23.	Reasoning
Two more cases, which were relied by the appellant and noticed by the High Court need to be noted.	None
The Privy Council judgment in Gokal ChandJagan Nath Vs.	None
Nand Ram DasAtma Ram, AIR (1938) P.C. 292, is relevant for the present case.	None
In the appeal before the Privy Council, judgment of the High Court was assailed on the ground that the two Honble Judges of the High Court heard the matter, although, both judges concurred with the judgment, but one Judge went on leave before signing the judgment, which was signed by only one Judge.	None
The Privy Council repelled the contention and held that signing by one of the Judges at best was only irregularity, not affecting the merits of the case.	None
Following was laid down in Paragraphs 6, 7 and 86.	None
A further point was raised by the appellants.	None
They urged that the judgment of the High Court appealed from was not a valid judgment because it failed to comply with Order XLI, Rule 31, of the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
The relevant facts on this issue are that the hearing in the High Court was before two Judges, Harrison and Agha Haider JJ., and was actually delivered by the former Judge, the latter agreeing.	None
The judgment was delivered on February 22, 1933.	None
But Harrison J. went on leave before signing the judgment, which was signed by Agha Haider J., the Deputy Registrar appending a note that Harrison J. had gone on leave before signing the judgment he delivered.7.	None
Order XLI, Rule 31 requires that the judgment of the appellate Court shall be in writing and shall state various matters, and shall at the time that it is pronounced be signed and dated by the Judge or by the Judges concurring therein.8.	None
The Rule does not say that if its requirements are not complied with the judgment shall be a nullity.	None
So startling a result would need clear and precise words.	None
Indeed the Rule does not even state any definite time in which it is to be fulfilled.	None
The time is left to be defined by what is reasonable.	None
The Rule from its very nature is not intended to affect the rights of parties to a judgment.	None
It is intended to secure certainty in the ascertainment of what the judgment was.	None
It is a rule which Judges are required to comply with for that object.	None
No doubt in practice Judges do so comply, as it is their duty to do.	None
But accidents may happen.	None
A Judge may die after giving judgment but before he has had a reasonable opportunity to sign it.	None
The Court must have inherent jurisdiction to supply such a defect.	None
The case of a Judge who has gone on leave before signing the judgment may call for more comment, but even so the convenience of the Court and the interest of litigants must prevail.	None
The defect is merely an irregularity.	None
But in truth the difficulty is disposed of by Sections 99 and 108 of the Civil Procedure Code.	None
Section 99 provides that no decree shall be reversed or substantially varied nor shall any case be remanded, in appeal on account of any error, defect or irregularity in any proceedings in the suit, not affecting the merits of the case or the jurisdiction of the Court.	None
That Section conies in the part dealing with appeals from original decrees.	None
But Section 108 applies the same provision to appeals from appellate decrees and it is always in the discretion of the Board to apply the principle on appeal to His Majesty in Council.	None
In their Lordships judgment, the defect here was an irregularity not affecting the merits of the case or the jurisdiction of the Court, and is no ground for setting aside the decree.	None
24.	None
Another judgment, which was cited by the appellant was A. Shanta Rao Vs.	None
State Transport Appellate Tribunal, Hyderabad Ors., AIR 1985 A.P. 256.	None
In the above case, State Transport Appellate Tribunal consisting of Chairman and two members heard the matter.	None
However, the order was issued only with the signature of Chairman.	None
The order was attacked on the ground that the other two members having not signed the order, the order is illegal.	None
Repelling the contention following was stated in Paragraph 99.	None
On the first question, I am of the view that once the minutes of the State Transport Authority are found to be signed by all the members including the Chairman, the mere fact that the final order is communicated under the signature of the Chairman alone does not amount to any illegality.	None
The Court has to see the substance of the matter and not the mere form, and if it is clear that all the members of the Tribunal have applied their mind to the facts of the case and arrived at a conclusion, it does not matter if the communication is made under the signature of the Chairman.	None
25.	None
Although, in above two cases, there was concurrence of all the members of Court Tribunal but all had not signed the order.	Reasoning
The present is a case where Chairperson and two members heard the application in meeting dated 16.10.2014 but order was subsequently pronounced on 15.12.2014 and signed by only Chairperson and one member.	Reasoning
The third member having been transferred in the meanwhile.	Reasoning
As noticed above, there is no pleading in the writ petition as to whether the third member, who was transferred had agreed with the proposed order or did not agree with the decision, which was to be delivered by the State Transport Authority.	Reasoning
Had third member agreed, there cannot be any debate in this matter, the issues being covered by judgment of this Court in Ramaswamy Nadar(supra) and judgment of the Privy Council in Gokal Chand Jagan Nath (supra).	Reasoning
But there being neither any pleading nor any material to come to the conclusion that the third member has agreed with the opinion, we have proceeded to examine the present case as if, the third member did not agree with the order proposed.	Reasoning
We have already noticed the reason for coming to the conclusion that the order issued by the State Transport Authority, signed by the Chairperson and one member is a valid order having been issued with the majority opinion of two out of three, who heard the application on 16.10.2014.	Reasoning
Thus, in any view of the matter, no illegality can be attached with the order dated 15.12.2014, which was signed by the Chairperson and one member.26.	Reasoning
In view of the foregoing discussion, we are of the opinion that decision dated 15.12.2014 issued with the signatures of Chairperson and one member was a valid decision in spite of the fact that one of the members who was present in the hearing when the meeting took place on 16.10.2014 and had been transferred in the meanwhile did not sign the order.	Reasoning
The decision of the State Transport Authority dated 15.12.2014 was fully in accordance with the statutory scheme of the Rules, 1994 and both the learned Single Judge and Division Bench erred in holding the decision as invalid.	Reasoning
We, thus, are of the view that judgments of learned Single Judge and Division Bench do not express the correct view of the law.27.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeal is allowed and judgments of the High Court are set aside.	Decision
