 JASWANT SINGH, J. 1.	None
These three Appeals Nos. 1944, 1945 and 1946 of 1967 by certificate which are directed against the common judgment and decree dated July 29, 1964 of a Division Bench of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh involving a question of limitation shall be disposed of by this judgment.	Issue
2.	None
The facts leading to these appeals are As appears from the pedigree table referred to in the judgment under appeal, Chuhar Singh, a descendant of Amrika, son of Har Lal, sold land admeasuring 167 kanals and 10 marlas situate in village Dhugga, Tahsil Hoshiarpur, to Bhagwan Singh, the grandfather of defendants Nos. 1 to 6, for Rs.23/8/ vide a registered s ale deed dated June 20, 1885.	Facts
After the aforesaid alienation, one Hamira, a collateral of Chuhar Singh, filed a suit for possession by preemption of 52 kanals, 13 marlas out of the aforesaid area which was decreed in his favour on April 29, 1889 on payment of 671/. The mutation in respect of the remainder of the land admeasuring 114 kanals and 17 marlas was attested in favour of Bhagwan Singh on May 4, 1890.	Facts
Hamira did not retain the property which he secured by preemption and sold it back to Bhagwan Singh on September 20, 1890, with the result that Bhagwan Singh again became the owner of the entire land which was originally sold to him by Chuhar Singh who died in 1896.	Facts
On July 19, 1898, Jiwan, Bela, Jawahar and Jawala, descendants of Bharimian, another son of Har Lal, filed a representative suit for declaration to the effect that the aforesaid sale by Chuhar Singh in favour of Bhagwan Singh would not affect their reversionary rights as the aforesaid land was ancestral and the sale thereof was without consideration and legal necessity.	Facts
A Division Bench of the Punjab Chief Court finally disposed of the said suit by judgment dated July 29, 1902 declaring that upon the death of Alla Singh, adopted son of Chuhar Singh, and extinction of his line, the aforesaid sale of 1885 would not affect the reversionary interests of Bela and Jawahar.	Facts
This declaration was made subject to the condition that before these plaintiffs or their successorsininterest would take possession of their share of the laud sold, they would pay to Bhagwan Singh or his successorsininterest a sum bearing the same proportion of Rs.1611/ i.e. Rs.2378 minus 767/) as their share in the land sold bore to the Whole area sold.	Facts
On the death of Alia Singh, Kishan Singh, his only sou, succeeded him.	Facts
On December 18, 1943, Jawahar Singh and Bela Singh brought a suit for possession of land admeasuring 113 kanals and 18 marlas situate in village Dhugga alleging that Kishan Singh having died on August 15, 1945, and the line of Alia Singh having become extinct, they were entitled to possession of the land in accordance with the aforesaid decree of the Punjab Chief Court.	Facts
This suit was followed by two more suits of identical nature for the remainder of the land by two other sets of collaterals of Bhagwan Singh, one by Waryam Singh and his three brothers who claimed half of the entire holding and the other by Khazan Singh and Jagat Singh, who claimed one fourth share of the holding.	Facts
The Trial Court consolidated all these three suits and proceeded to try them together, Eventually it decreed the first two suits in favour of the plaintiffs pursuant to the aforesaid decree of the Chief Court of Punjab holding that Kishan Singh had died on August 15, 1945.	Facts
It, however, dismissed the suit brought by Khazan Singh and Jagat Singh on the ground that they being the successorsininterest of Hamira, who had brought the aforesaid preemption suit, were stopped from claiming possession of the land.	Facts
On appeal, the District Judge, Hoshiarpur, dismissed all the three suits as premature holding that the factum of Kishan Singhs death not been established.	Facts
The decision of the District Judge was affirmed in appeal by a Single Judge of the Punjab High Court by his judgment and decree dated August 3, 1951.	Facts
The plaintiffs in the last mentioned suits, viz.	Facts
Waryam Singh and his three brothers, Jawahar Singh and Bela Singh, and Khazan Singh and Jagat Singh again instituted three separate suits (out of which the present appeals have arisen) on October 28, 1952, December 16, 1952, and May 12, 1953, respectively for the same relief which was sought by them in the previous suits.	Facts
In these suits, the plaintiffs averted as follows with regard to the cause of action 5.	Facts
After Alia, adopted son of Chuhar Singh, deceased, his son Kishan Singh became his heir and representative.	Facts
Now the whereabouts of Kishan Singh aforesaid, have not been traceable for more than seven years.	Facts
Since the 15th Aug ., 1945, no information or intimation that he is alive has been received by any of his relative or any other concerned person.	Facts
Hence he is considered as dead and his suit is being filed.	Facts
The line of Alia has become extinct.	Facts
Under these circumstances, the plaintiffs being collaterals of Chuhar Singh, deceased vide the pedigreetable given above, are entitled to get possession of the laud of half share, the sale of which has been cancelled vide the decree granted by the Chief Court, subject to payment of Rs.805/8/ of their proportionate share.	Facts
Hence, we have filed this suit.	Facts
The parties are governed by the Zamindara custom in the matters of succession.	None
Prior to it, the plaintiffs had filed a suit for possession of this property (land) on the 18th December, 1945, in the Civil Court at Hoshiarpur, alleging that Kishan Singh, son of Alia who was the last man of the line of Alia, has died on 15th August, 1945 The suit of the plaintiffs, detaile d in para No. 6 above was based upon the factum of the death of Kishan Singh.	Facts
The plaintiffs had no personal knowledge about this fact, rather it was based on me re hearsay, but this event of the 15th of August, 1945, came out to be false and such a decision was passed in the previous suit between the parties and the parties are bound by the same.	Facts
But the whereabouts of Kishan Singh, aforesaid, have not been traceable since the 15th August, 1945, according to the above facts mentioned in para No. 5.	Facts
After the 15th of August, 1952, (1945?)	Facts
the event of his death is to be determined according to law (under section 108) and facts (under section 114) Evidence Act.	Facts
Accordingly, Kishan Singh is to be considered as dead after the 15th of August 1952(?) and he is not alive.	Facts
Two months prior to the 15th of August, 1945, h e had been residing sometime at Mauza Dhugga, District Hoshiarpur and sometime at Mauza Sonion, District Jullundur, permanently.	Facts
Thereafter, he went outside towards Ahmedabad for searching some job and earning his livelihood.	Facts
The last information about his presence in Ahmedabad was received on the 5th of August, 1945 and since then his whereabouts have not been available 10.	Facts
The right to sue has accrued against defendants Nos. 1 to 6 within the jurisdiction of his district after the 16th of August, 1952, in the beginning of the months of October, 1952 viz., after a period of seven years since the whereabouts of Kishan Singh have not been traceable and since he is con sidered to be dead according to law and so the Civil Court of this District is competent to try this suit At any rate, Kishan Singh died within a period of three years from the date of filing the suit and so this suit is within time.	Facts
At any rate, the entire aforesaid period mentioned in para No. 6 from 181245 to 3851 is liable to be deducted according to law and facts.	Facts
3.	None
These suits which were resisted by the contesting defendants on a number of grounds, were eventually dismissed by the Trial Court as time barred with the finding that though Kishan Singh had not been heard for seven years before the institution of the suits, the actual date of this death had not been proved.	Facts
The trial Court, however, held that the decree of the Punjab Chief Court enured for the benefit of the entire body of reversioners and not exclusively for the benefit of Jawahar Singh and Bela Singh.	Facts
On appeal, the District Judge upheld the dismissal of the suits adding that Hamira having successfully brought a suit for preemption in respect of a portion of the sale precluded not only himself but his successors as well from acquiring the property.	Facts
In this view of the matter, he opined that Jagat Singh and Khazan Singh were not entitled to any share at all in the land.	Facts
On further appeal, a Single Judge of the Punjab High Court decreed all the three suits by his judgment dated October 28, 1959, holding that Kishan Singh having been treated as alive by.	Facts
the High Court when it passed the previous judgment dated August 3, 1951, the conclusion of the courts below that Kishan Singh had been dead seven years before the institution of the present suits could not be sustained.	Facts
While computing the period of limitation, the Single Judge also excluded the time spent on the previous litigation from 1945 to 1951 under section 14(1) of the Limitation Act.	Facts
It would be advantageous to reproduce the observations made in this behalf by the.	Facts
Single Judge Till 3rd of August, 1951, when the judgment (of the High Court in the previous suits) was delivered, the position was that the death of Kishan Singh had not been established.	None
Admittedly, the whereabouts of Kishan Singh are still not known and, in my opinion, there can be no escape from the conclusion on these facts that the death of Kishan Singh must be presumed under section 108 of the Indian Evidence Act as he had not been heard of for a period of seven years, .	Facts
The present suits were brought between 28th of October, 1952 and 12th of May, 1953.	Facts
The correct approach to reach a solution of the present problem is to give allowance to the plaintiffs, if found necessary, for the period which they spent in previous litigation that is to say, from the years 1945 to 1951.	Facts
Under subsection (1) of section 14 of the Indian Limitation Act, the time during which the plaintiff has been prosecuting with due diligence another civilproceeding, whether in a court of first instance or in a court of appeal, against the defendant, shall be excluded, where the proceeding is found upon the same cause of.	Facts
action and is prosecuted in good faith in a court which, from defect of jurisdiction or other cause of a like nature, is unable to entertain it Both the previous litigation and the present are found on the same cause of action.	Facts
The previous litigation ended with the judgment of the Punjab High Court in which it was held that the suit was premature, the plaintiff s having failed to establish the death of Kishan Singh The plain fact of the matter is that no proof is forthcoming of Kishan Singh continued existence since 1945.	Facts
Since the judgment of the High Court in 1951, where it was held that the death of Kishan Singh had not been proved 8 years have elapsed.	Facts
There ca n be no escape from the conclusion now that Kishan Singhs death must be presumed.	Facts
The decision of the High Court in 1951 should provide a suitable ground for extension of time under provisions of section 14 of the Indian Limitation Act.	Facts
The whole basis of the judgment of the courts below, in my opinion, is erroneous.	Facts
It is not a requirement of section 108 of the Indian Evidence Act that the date of death of the person whose death is to be presumed must be established.	Facts
All that is said is that if a person is not heard of for a period of seven years, his death maybe presumed.	Facts
4.	None
The contesting defendants then took the matter in Letters Patent Appeal to a Division Bench of the High Court which by its Judgment dated July 29, 1964 set aside the afore Said judgment and decree of the Single Judge holding that the Single Judge was in error in excluding.	Facts
the time spent on the previous litigation by the plaintiffs by applying section 14(1) of the Limitation Act.	Facts
Relying on the decision of the Full Bench of the Lahore High Court in Bhai Jai Kishan Singh v. People Ban k of Northern India, I.L.R. 1944 Lah.	Facts
136	Facts
, the Division Bench held that the words.	Facts
or other cause of a like nature occurring in section 14(1) of the Limitation Act had to be read ejusdem generis with the preceding words relating to defect of jurisdiction and that it was not possible to give the benefit of that provision to the plaintiffs as it could not be regarded that the court was unable to entertain the previous suits because of any defect of jurisdiction or other cause of a like nature merely because of the fact that the court came to the conclusion that the cause of action had not yet arisen.	Facts
Aggrieved by this JUDGMENT, the plaintiffs have come up in appeal to this Court as already stated.	Facts
5.	None
Before adverting to the contentions raised before us on behalf of the appellants, we must first dispose of the preliminary objection raised by Mr. Mehta, counsel for the contesting respondents, regarding the maintainability of the appeals.	Issue
According to Mr. Mehta, the said appeals have been rendered untenable and have to be dismissed in view of the amendment introduced in section 7 of the Punjab Custom (Power to Contest) Act, 1920 (Act 2 of 1920) by the Punjab Custom (Power to Contest) Amendment Act, 1973 (Act 12 of 1973) which has been given a retrospective operation by subsection (2) of section 1 of the Amending Act.	Arguments of Respondent
This contention is, in our opinion, wholly misconceived and cannot be allowed to prevail as it overlooks the savings clause contained in section 4 of the Punjab Custom (Power to Contest) Act, 1920 (Act 2 of 1920) which has been left untouched by the Punjab Custom (Power to Contest) Amendment Act, 1973 (Act 12 of 1973) and runs thus 4.	Reasoning
SavingsThis Act shall not affect any right to contest any alienation or appointment of an heir made before the date on which this Act comes into force.	None
6.	None
The alienation in question was admittedly made by Chuhar Singh in favour of Bhagwan Singh in 1885 i.e. long before the 28th day of May, 1920the date on which the Punjab Custom (Power to Contest) Act 1920 (Act 2 of 1920) came into force.	Reasoning
It was, therefore, not at all affected by Act 2 of 1920.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter, it is not necessary to go into the other contention raised by Mr. I Sethi, counsel for the appellants, to the effect that in any event the preliminary objection raised by Mr. Mehta is not tenable as the Punjab Custom (Power to Contest) Amendment Act, 1973 (Act 12 of 1973) had not the effect of abrogating the declaratory decree already obtained by predecessorsininterest of his clients prior to the coming into force of the Amending Act.	Reasoning
7.	None
Having disposed of the preliminary objection, we now proceed to consider the contentions that have been pressed for our consideration by Mr. Sethi, counsel for the appellants.	None
He has strenuously urged that section 14(1) of the Limitation Act was applicable to the facts and circumstances of the present case and that the Division Bench of the High Court has grossly erred in not giving the benefit of the provision to the appellants which would have entitled them to the exclusion of the time from October 10, 1945 to August 3, 1951 spent in prosecuting with due diligence and in good faith the previous suits in the court of first instance and in the courts of appeal which expressed their inability to entertain the suits on the ground that they were premature.	Reasoning
There is no force in these contentions.	None
8.	None
It cannot be and has not been disputed that the present suits are governed by Article 2 of the Schedule annexed to the Punjab Limitation (Customs) Act, 1920 (Act 1 of 1920) which provides as follows Chart 9.	Reasoning
As the plaintiffs had already obtained a declaratory decree, they had to, in order to be able to succeed, bring their suits within three years of the accrual of the right to sue (which according to the well settled judicial opinion means the accrual of the right to seek relief) viz.	Reasoning
within three years of the death of Kishan Singh when the line of Alia Singh became extinct.	Reasoning
They had to prove affirmatively that the death of Kishan Singh took place within three years of the institution of the suits.	Reasoning
The contention of counsel for the plaintiffs is, however, that Kishan Singh not having been heard of for more, than seven years since August 15, 1945, a presumption of the factum or his death has to be drawn at the expiration of seven years from that date in terms of section 108 o f the Evidence Act.	Reasoning
We find it difficult to accept this contention.	None
Granting that Kishan Singh has to be presumed to be dead, it cannot be overlooked that under section 108 of the Evidence Act, the precise time of the death is not a matter of presumption but of evidence and the onus of proving that the death took place at any particular time within seven years lies upon the person who claim a right for the establishment of which the proof of that fact is essential.	Reasoning
The plaintiffs had not only, there fore, to prove that Kishan Singh had not been heard of for a period of seven years and was to be taken to be dead, but it also lay heavily on them to prove the particular point of time within seven years when Kishan Singhs death occurred.	Reasoning
This they have miserably failed to prove.	Reasoning
In the absence of such proof, it cannot be held that the present suits had been brought within three years of the accrual of the right to sue.	Reasoning
We are supported in this view by a catena of authorities.	None
In Nepean v. Doe D. Knight (1837) 2 M W 894 7L J Ex 335 Lord Denman delivering the judgment of the Court observed The doctrine laid down is, that where a person goes abroad, and is not heard of for seven years, the law presumes the fact that such person is dead, but not that he died at the beginning or the end of any particular period during those seven years that if it be.	None
important to anyone to establish the precise time of such persons death, he must do so by evidence of some sort, to be laid before the jury for that purpose, beyond the mere lapse of seven years since such person was last heard of.	None
Such inconveniences may no doubt arise, but they do not warrant us in laying down a rule, that the p arty shall be presumed to have died on the last day of the seven years, which would manifestly be contrary to the fact in almost all instances.	None
10.	None
This case was followed by a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court as far back as 1916 in Jayawant Jivanrao Deshpande v. Ramchandra Narayan Joshi (A.I.R. 1916 Bom. 300) 11.	None
A similar view was taken by the Privy Council in Lalchand Marwari v. Ramrup Gir (LIII I.A. 24 A.I.R. 1926 P.C. 9) where it was observed Under the Indian Evidence.	None
Act, 1872, s. 108, when theCourt has to determine the date o	None
f the death of a person who has not been heard of for a period of more than seven years, there is no presumption that he died at the end of the first seven years, or at any particular date.	None
12.	None
Another case in point is jiwan Singh v. Kuar Reoti Singh Anr.	None
(A.I.R. 1930 All. 427), where it was held The presumption raised by section 108 is confined to the factum of death and not the exact time when death may have occurred.	None
Where a party affirms that a certain person died on or before a particular date, that fact has to be established by positive evidence.	None
13.	None
Similar view was expressed in Kottapalli Venkateswarlu v. Kottapali Bupayya Ors.	None
(A.I.R. 1957 A. P. 380).	None
14.	None
In Punjab Ors.	None
v. Natha Ors.	None
(A.I.R. 1931 Lab.	None
582).	None
a Full Bench of the Lahore High Court observed Where a person has not been heard of for seven years when a suit is instituted, s. 108 comes into operation and raises a presumption that at the institution of the suit he was de ad, but no presumption arises as to the date of his death, which has to be proved in the same way as any other relevant fact in the case.	None
15.	None
Again in Ram Kali Ors.	None
v. Narain Singh (A.I.R. 1934	None
Oudh 298 F.B.)	None
it was laid down If a person has not been heard of for seven years, there is a presumption of law that he is dead but at what time within that period he died is not a matter of presumption but of evidence and the onus of proving that the death took place at any particular time within the seven years lies upon the person who claims a right to the establishment of which that fact is essential.	None
16.	None
In the instant cases, assuming that Kishan Singh died within seven years of the institution of the suits out of which the present appeals have arisen, even then the benefit of the section 14 cannot be allowed to the appellants.	None
This provision in so far as it is material for our purpose runs as follows 14(1).	None
In computing the period of limitation prescribed for any suit the time, during which the plaintiff has been prosecuting with due diligence another civil proceeding, whether in a court of first instance or in a Court of Appeal, against the defendant shall be excluded, where the proceeding is founded upon the same cause of action and is prosecuted in good faith in a Court which, from defect of jurisdiction, or other cause of a like nature, is unable to entertain it 17.	None
It would be noticed that three important conditions have to be satisfied before the section can be pressed into service.	Reasoning
These three conditions are(1) that the plaintiff must have prosecuted the earlier civil proceeding with due diligence (2) the former proceeding must have been prosecuted in good faith in a court which from defect of jurisdiction or other cause of a like nature was unable to entertain it and (3) the earlier proceeding and the later proceeding must be based on the same cause of action.	Reasoning
18.	None
Now the words or other cause of a like nature which follow the words defect of jurisdiction in the above quoted provision are very important.	Reasoning
Their scope has to be determined according to the rule of ejusdem generis.	Reasoning
According to that rule, they take their colour from the preceding words defect of jurisdiction which means that the defect must have been of an analogous character barring the court from entertaining the previous suit.	Reasoning
A Full Bench of the Lahore High Court con sisting of Hatties C.J., Abdur Rahman, J and Mahajan J. (as he then was) expressed a similar view in Bhai Jai Kishan Singh v. People Bank of Northern India (supra).	None
19.	None
In the instant cases, it is not denied by the plaintiffs that the Court which tried the previous suits was not precluded from entertaining them because of any defect of jurisdiction.	Reasoning
We have, therefore, only to see whether the said court was unable to entertain the former suits on account of any defect of an analogous character.	Issue
Even a most liberal approach to the question does not impel us to hold that the court trying the earlier suits was unable to entertain them on any ground analogous to the defect of jurisdiction.	Reasoning
In Dwarkanath Chakravarti v. Atul Chandra Chakravarti (I.L.R. 46 Cal. 870) where the court trying the previous suit had refused to entertain a claim for rent because it was premature, it was held that in a subsequent suit for the aforesaid rent, the plaintiff could not rely upon the provisions of section 14(1) of the Limitation Act and say that the time did not run against him while those proceedings were being prosecuted.	Reasoning
Again in Palla Pattabhiramayya Ors.	Reasoning
v. Velaga Narayana Rao (A.I.R. 1960 A.P. 625)	Reasoning
it was held that the fact that the previous suit was dismissed as the plaintiff had no cause of action was not a ground which was covered by section 14 (1).Thus it could not be held that the court which tried the previous suits but eventually threw them out as.	Reasoning
premature suffered from inability or incapacity to entertain the suits on the ground of lack of jurisdiction or any other defect of the like character.	Reasoning
Accordingly the exclusion of the period from December 18, 1945 to August 3, 1951 sought by the appellants cannot be legitimately allowed to them while computing the period of limitation.	Reasoning
20.	None
There is also another factor which prevents us from granting the benefit of section 14(1) of the Limitation Act to the appellants.	Reasoning
It would be seen that in the previous suits, the plaintiffs had averted that the cause of action accrued to them on the death of Kishan Singh which had occurred on August 15, 1945.	Reasoning
They have, however, as already indicated by reference to the averments made in paragraphs 5, 6, 8, 9, and 10 of the petition of plaint based the present suits on a different cause of action.	Reasoning
It is, however, no t necessary to dilate upon this aspect of the matter in view of our categoric finding that the earlier suits did not suffer from any defect of jurisdiction or any other defect of the like character which could have precluded the court from entertaining them.	Reasoning
21.	None
It is also significant that the protection of section 14(1) of the Limitation Act was not claimed by the plaintiffs either in the Trial Court or in the first appellate court.	Reasoning
22. Assuming, therefore, that Kishan Singh died within seven years of the institution of the suits.	None
out of which the present appeals have arisen even then the protection of section 14(1) cannot be allowed to the appellants and.	Reasoning
the suits have to be dismissed as time barred in terms of section 5 of the Punjab Limitation (Customs) Act, 1920, (Act 1 of 1920) which is reproduced below for facility of reference 5.	Reasoning
Dismissal of suits of the description specified in the act if instituted after the period of limitation herein prescribed has expired.	None
Subject to the provisions contained in sections 4 to.	None
25 (inclusive) of the Indian Limitation Act 1903, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the first schedule of the said Act, every suit, of any description specified in the schedule annexed to this Act, instituted after the period of limitation prescribed therefore in the schedule shall be dismissed, although limitation has not been set up as a defence.	None
23.	None
As a result of the foregoing discussion, the appeals fail and are hereby dismissed.	Decision
In view, however, of the circumstance of the case, the parties are left to pay and bear their own costs in these appeals.	Decision
BEG, J. The question before us is Were the three suits, the first instituted on 21st October, 1952, the second on 18th December, 1952, and the third on 5th May, 1953, tried and heard together, cut of which the three appeals before us arise, filed within time, and if they were filed beyond time, whether the plaintiffs i n each suit were entitled to the benefit of Section 14 of the Limitation Act?	Issue
25.	None
Plaintiffs in the three suits instituted in circumstances explained fully by my learned brother Jaswant Singh, included all those persons who could sue as reversioners of Kishan Singh if it was proved that he was dead or presumed to be dead and, they are all appellants before us.	None
It is evident from a bare statement of the case set up in each of the identically similar plaints in the suits now before us that, as three previous suits filed by these very plaintiffs in 1945 for the same reliefs had failed against the same defendants for want of proof of date of death of Kishan Singh, the suits now before us were based on somewhat different allegations setting up a new cause of action.	None
Otherwise obviously, they would have been barred by res judicata.	None
As the learned Single Judge, before whom the three cases now before us first came up in the High Court, had pointed out, the earlier suits had failed because they were held to.	None
be premature so.	None
far as the cause of action now before us is concerned and for want of proof of the date of death of Kishan Singh so far as the actual cause of action set up there was concerned.	None
We also indicated, quite clearly, how the causes of action in the earlier and later sets of litigation were quite different and why the new cause of action arose within three years before the filing of the suits.	None
26.	None
Considerable confusion seems to have been caused by the prolixity of pleading s in the case so that, although the plaintiffs asserted clearly the accrual of a new cause of action, with the aid of a presumption, they were saddled with the responsibility to discharge another onus tied to the proof of a particular date which had been abandoned by them after their dismal failure in the earlier litigation to prove the actual date of death of Kishan Singh who.	Issue
had disappeared.	Issue
Could they fail again for the same reason although the cause of action they set up is fresh and different and arose within three years before filing of the suits ?	Issue
That is the real question we have to answer.	None
Perhaps the way in which I look at the question and have stated it makes.	None
an answer in the negative unavoidable.	None
Hence, my inability, with great respect, to concur with another view put forward by my learned brother Jaswant Singh.	None
27.	None
I think that the learned Single Judge, dealing with the question of limitation in the High Court, had correctly summarised the.	None
whole position and found as follows even without going into the question of burden of proof of date of death of Kishan Singh All the three sets of plaintiffs have come up in second appeal to this Court and Mr. M.L. Sethi has addressed a very persuasive argument on the question of limitation which in reality is now the only substantial matter in dispute.	None
He has pointedly brought to my notice the anomalous and baffling situation in which the plaintiffs have been placed.	None
According to the judgment of the High Court of 3rd August, 1951, it was found that the death of Kish an Singh had not been proved.	None
In other words, Kishan Singh was deemed to have been alive at the time when the High Court decree was passed on 3rd of August, 1951.	None
If that position is accepted, as indeed it must, the conclusion of the Courts below, that Kishan Singh had been dead seven years before the institution of the present suits, cannot be sustained.	Facts
To this position there is the added complication of the defendants own admission that Kishan Singh was alive at the time when the statement was made by their counsel Milkhi Ram on 27th of April, 1953.	None
I find myself unable to assent to the proposition on which both the, courts below have founded their conclusions that suits must be.	None
regarded as barred by time as the date of death of Kishan Singh had not been proved.	None
The District Judge has arrived at his conclusion because in the previous suits it was asserted that Kishan Singh had died on 15th of August, 1945.	None
As the death of Kishan Singh had not been proved, the suits were dismissed up in the High Court being premature.	None
It passes my comprehension how it can now be said that Kishan Singh died some time before 1945 and the suits having been brought more than three years after his death are now barred by statute.	None
The previous suits filed by the three different sets Of plain tiffs were founded on the allegation that Kishan Singh had died in Ahmedabad some where in August 1945.	None
A good deal of oral and documentary evidence was led in support of Kishan Singhs death.	None
The conclusion of the learned District Judge (Mr. Chhakan Lal) was that the plaintiffs had not succeeded in establishing the death of Kishan Singh and it could not, there, be held that the line of Alia had become extinct.	None
In the judgment, in second appeal, of Harnam Singh J., the only question which, was discussed was whether the death of Kishan Singh had been proved.	None
It is pertinent to observe that in the High Court it was common ground between both the parties that the case did not fall under section 108 of the Indian Evidence Act.	None
Like the District Judge, Harnam Singh J discussed the oral and documentary evidence, which had been adduced by the parties and agreed with the finding of the lower appellate Court.	None
Till 3rd of August, 1951, when the judgment (of the HCin the previous suits) was delivered.	None
the. position was that the death of Kishan Singh had not been established.	None
28.	None
It seems to me that the learned Single Judge had sufficiently indicared that the cause of action in the previous litigation was different from the one now before us inasmuch as the facts now proved indisputably, showing that Kishan Singh must be presumed to be dead, could not be and were not set up in the.	None
earlier suits.	None
In 1945, this cause of action had not accrued.	None
As the learned Single Judge held, the effect of the judgment in the formed suits was that those suits were premature.	None
This could not be said of the suits now before us in appeal.	None
29.	None
It is true that the learned Single Judge had thought that, alternatively, Section 14 of the Limitation Act could apply inasmuch as the causes of action in the previous litigation as well as in the present litigation were identical.	None
In so far as the learned Single Judge postulated though for a limited purpose, an identity of causes of action of the previous and the present sets of suits, the assumption was inconsistent with his own emphatically expressed opinion revealing the difference in the causes of action.	None
The plaints in the suits before us set out the history of the whole litigation and clearly set up a case founded on new facts, not in existence at the time of the earlier litigation, and expressly state why the plaintiffs now rely on the presumption of death of Kishan Singh.	None
30.	None
The identically similar plaints of the plaintiffs now before us were not based upon any assertion or plea of their own dispossession.	None
For such suits the period oil limitation was given in Article 2 to the schedule of the Punjab Limitation (Customs) Act of 1920.	None
The provisions are set out in the judgment of my learned brother Jaswant Singh.	None
The period of limitation for such suits is three years from the date on which right to sue accrues or the date on which declaratory decree is obtained, whichever is later.	None
If the previous suits were dismissed, as it seems to me that they were, on the ground inter alia, that they were premature, the cause of action could only be said to have accrued after their institution.	None
31.	None
It seems to me that the learned District Judge, the fianl Court of facts in the suits now before us, had failed to determine the question whether Section 108 of the Evidence Act could come to the aid of the plaintiffs on the erroneous assumption that, in any case, the plaintiffs suits would be barred by time as the plaintiffs had not proved when Kishan Singh had died.	None
The learned District Judge seemed to hold the view that not only would the plaintiffs suits be barred by limitation, because the plaintiffs could not prove the actual date of Kishan Singhs death, but also that the presumption under section 108 itself will not be available to a party which could not prove the date of death of the person to be presumed to be dead.	None
At any rate, the learned District Judge was far fro m clear on the question whether Section 108 would apply to the case.	None
He recorded his conclusion as follows So, it is clear from the above discussion that the plaintiffs appellants have failed to show that their suits are within time from the date of the death of Kishan Singh.	None
No doubt the presumption is there that Kishan Singh is not heard of for the last 7 years but the date of death was very necessary to be proved and this has not been done by any of the witnesses.	None
32.	None
If the date of death of Kishan Singh had to be proved by the plaintiffs, no question of invoking the aid of a presumption to prove death could arise.	None
Proof of death would dispense with the need reply on any mere presumption of death.	None
The result of the District Judges failure was that the Single Judge of the Punjab High Court had to record essential findings of fact on this crucial question.	None
of availability of the presumption of death.	None
These indicated, beyond the shadow of doubt, that the plaintiffs were entitled to the benefit of the presumption laid down by Section 108 of the Evidence Act.	None
This meant that, on new facts asserted and proved, Kishan Singh could be presumed to be dead when the suits now before us were instituted in 1952 and 1953.	None
And, this presumption of the death of Kishan Singh having become available to the plaintiffs within three years of the suits and not before , no occasion for applying Section 14 Limitation Act could arise.	None
33.	None
The defendants, while pleading the bar of limitation to the suits had, quite inconsistently, also tried to suggest that Kishan Singh was either alive or must be assumed to be alive.	None
The plaintiffs could not be expected, on their plea that, proof of date of death of Kishan Singh being absent, they were relying only on the presumption of death, to lead evidence Of any date of death.	None
All that could be reasonably expected from them was to show that the presumption became available to them within three years before the filing of their suits.	None
The learned Single Judge of the High Court had, in my opinion correctly, recorded the following finding which made the presumption of death of Kishan Singh avail able to the plaintiffs The plain fact of the matter is that no proof is forthcoming of Kishan Singh continued existence since 1945.	Facts
Since the judgment of the High Court in 1951, where it was held that the death of Kishan Singh had not been not proved, 8 years have elapsed.	Facts
There can be no. escape from the conclusion now that Kishan Singhs death must be presumed.	Facts
34.	None
The learned Single Judge had also observed The decision of the High Court in 1951 should provide a suitable ground for extension of time under provisions of Section 14 of the Indian Limitation Act.	Facts
The whole basis of the judgment of the Courts below, in my opinion, is erroneous.	Facts
It is not a requirement of section 108 of the Indian Evidence Act that the date of death of the person whose death is presumed must be established.	Facts
All that is said is that if a person is not heard of for a period of seven years, his death may be presumed.	Facts
There is no presumption as to the time of death at any particular time within that period.	None
As I have already indicated, there was no need here to seek the aid of the provisions of Section 14 Limitation Act.	None
35.	None
In Mohd.	None
Khalil Khan v. Mohboob Ali Mian, (A.I.R. 1949 P.C. 78, 86.)	None
it was laid down A rough test, although not a conclusive one, as to whether the cause of action in a subsequent suit is the same a s that in the former suit, is to see whether the same evidence will sustain both suits, and regard should be had to the allegations in the two suits, and not the facts found by the Court in the former suit.	None
On the facts of the cases before us, we find the evidence sought to be given in the previous suits was that Kishan Singh had died on a particular date (i.e. 15th.	None
August, 1945), but, the evidence in the subsequent suits (now before us for decision) was not that he had died on a particular date but that he had not been heard of from 5th August, 1945, upto the time of the filing of new suits.	None
This evidence could not be given in the previous suits.	None
Hence, the above test is satisfied.	None
36.	None
In Smt.	None
Mahadevi v. Kaliji Birajman, (1969 All L.J. 896)	None
it was held that, if certain additional facts had to be proved for the success of the subsequent suit, the causes of action would differ.	None
It did not matter if there is a certain common ground to be covered by the evidence in both sets of cases.	None
This test would also be satisfied in cases before us now because the additional facts show that Kishan Singh had not been heard of by those who would have otherwise heard of him in the course of seven years.	None
This evidence could not be led at all in the previous suits as they were filed very soon after the alleged date of death of Kishan Singh.	None
37.	Issue
If causes of action differ from suit to suit, the accrual of the cause action can also not be tied down to a particular kind of fact such as the date of actual death of the holder of the property.	None
Once it is held that the causes of action differ for purposes of their accrual, their accrual could not be made to depend on facts of one type only.	None
Facts denoting their accrual must differ from case to case.	None
Of course, proof of date of actual death is conclusive.	None
But, where the basis of the right to sue is presumption of death the date of accrual of the right is the date on which that presumption matures.	None
38.	None
I have set out above the reasoning which appeals to me and makes the decision of this Court in India Electric Works Ltd. v. James Mantosh Anr., (1971 (2) S.C.R. 397.)	None
applicable to the cases now before us.	None
In that case, the appellant before this Court was a defendant tenant in a suit for recovery of damages with interest and costs.	None
In a previous suit the predecessorininterest of the plaintiff had sued the defendant for ejectment, but the defendant had continued in occupation of the premises as the suit was compromised.	None
The accommodation was requisitioned on 2nd February, 1945.	None
After the accommodation was released by the Gov t. on 21st November, 1945, the plaintiff filed two suits against defendant one for the recovery of damages upto 1st February, 1944, and another for damages from 22nd November, 1945, upto the date of recovery of possession although there was no suit for possession.	None
When the matter came up before the High Court in appeal, the High Court disallowed the claim for future mesne profits on the ground that it was a pure money suit an d not a suit for recovery of possession of immovable property and for mesne profits under Order 20, Rule 12, Civil Procedure Code.	None
The plaintiff then filed a third suit on 5th November, 1956, for recovery of Rs.28, 6 50/ as damages with interest thereon for a period from 22nd November, 1948, to 5th November, 1956.	None
The benefit of Section 14 of the Limitation Act was claimed for the amount claimed for the period beyond three years.	None
Two of the learned Judges of this Court, Shah and Grover, JJ., held that, although the claim for future mesne profits, not having been satisfied by the money suit of 1948, in which the decree of the Trial Court was S et aside on 30th June, 1955, by the High Court, a fresh cause of action arose from 30th June, 1955, yet, it was unnecessary to decide the case on that principle because the Court was satisfied that, in any event, Section 14(1) of the Limitation Act, which had to be construed liberally, would cover the period for which the claim was said to be barred by limitation.	None
Though, the third learned Judge, Hegde, J., seemed to be of the opinion that Section 24(1) of the Limitation Act could not help the plaintiff, yet, following the decision of the Judicial Committee in Mst.	None
Ranee Surno Moyee v. Shooshee Mokhee Burmonla Ors.	None
(12 Moores I.A. 244.) which had governed later decisions of the Privy Council and various High Courts a new cause of action, arising within the period of limitation, would , ensure to the benefit of the plaintiffs.	None
39.	Issue
It seems to me that the lines on which the case of India Electric Works (supra) was decided enable us to correctly decide whether a new cause of action had accrued in favour of the plaintiffs in the suits before us, which were filed within three years of the accrual of this cause of action, as well as on the question whether, if this be not the correct position, Section 14(2) of the Limitation Act could be invoked by plaintiffs.	None
Indeed, the view accepted by the three Judges of this Court, that it is enough to institute proceedings within the prescribed period from the accrual of the fresh cause of action, appears to me to provide the common view we cannot reject.	None
This view would apply if we agree, as my learned brother Jaswant Singh does, that a cause of action had arisen here.	None
40.	Issue
In State of Madras v. V.P. Agencies Anr., (A.I.R. 1960 S.C. 1309 at 1310.)	None
Das, CJ., referred to various expositions of the meanings of the term cause of action, including that by Lord Watson, in Mst. Chand Kour v. Partap Singh, (15 Ind. App. 156.)	None
where we find (at p. 1310)	None
Now the cause of action, has no relation whatever to the defence which may be set up by the defendant, nor does it depend upon the character of the relief prayed for by the plaintiff.	None
If refers entirely to the grounds set forth in the plaint as the cause of action, or, in other words, to the media upon which the plaintiff asks the court to arrive at a conclusion in his favour.	None
41.	Issue
The expression cause of action has sometimes been employed to convey the restricted idea of facts or circumstances which constitute either the infringement or the basis of a right and no more.	None
In a wider and more comprehensive sense, it has been used to denote the whole bundle of material facts which a plaintiff must prove in order to succeed.	None
These are all those essential facts without the proof of which the plaintiff must fail in his suit.	None
Now, whether we use the expression in the narrower or in the wider sense, in the case before us, the death of Kishan Singh was certainly an essential part of the cause of action.	None
It had to be proved to enable the plaintiffs to put forward their claims to succeed at all.	None
But, proof of the date of death was not essential or indispensable for that purpose.	None
It could only become material in deciding whether the right which had accrued had been extinguished by the law of limitation.	None
Both the narrower and the wider sense of the term cause of action would certainly include all those facts and circumstances on the strength of which the plaintiffs urged that they were entitled to the benefit of the obligatory presumption of law contained in Section 108 of the Evidence Act.	None
As these were not available to the plaintiffs before the expiry of seven years from 5th August , 1945, it does not seem to be possible to urge that this cause of action had arisen more than three years before the filing of the suits now before us.	None
Applying the tests stated above, the causes of action in the earlier and later litigations would, in my opinion, be materially different.	None
We could only hold that no cause of.	None
action had arisen at all if we assume that Kishan Singh had not died at all.	None
And, how could we assume that without disregarding Section 108 Evidence Act ?	None
If we cannot do that, the cause of action could only accrue when we could presume that he is dead, And, the date of its accrual could not possibly lie a day earlier than 7 years after 5th Au gust, 1945, when Kishan Singh was last heard of.	None
42.	None
As indicated above, the identity of the relief asked for in the earlier and later suits does not matter.	None
It also does not matter that the defendant in both sets of suits have.	None
attempted to suggest that Kishan Singh is still alive.	None
It iS they who had asserted that the plaintiffs rights were extinguished by the operation of the law of limitation.	None
The refore, strictly speaking, it appears to me that it was for the defendants to establish, if they could, that Kishan Singh was either alive or had died more than three years before the suits were filed.	None
There is no proof of either of these here, The presumption under Section 107 of the Evidence Act could not.	None
come to the aid of the defendants when the plaintiffs had established facts necessary to raise the presumption under Section 108 of the Evidence Act.	None
There seemed to be irrefutable evidence that, after a letter of Kishan Singh, received at Ahmedabad on 5th August, 1945, nothing had been beard or was known about him.	None
Hence, the plaintiffs relied on the presumption under Section 108 Evidence Act because they could not prove the actual date of death which had a bearing only on the bar of limitation set up by the defendants.	None
As has been pointed out some times, the function of a presumption is to fill a gap in evidence.	None
In these circumstances, it seems to me that the defendants should have been called upon to show, before relying upon the bar of limitation, how t he death of Kishan Singh took place on a date.	None
beyond three years of the filing of the suit before the question of applying Section 14 Limitation Act could arise at all.	None
43.	Issue
The plaintiffs could only be required to show the accrual of their cause of action within the prescribed period of limitation.	None
They had, obviously, discharged that burden.	None
If the media, to use the term employed by Lord Watson, quoted earlier, upon which the plaintiffs rest their cases, are different in the previous and subsequent litigations, the causes of action are different, as held by ray learned brother Jaswant Singh also.	None
And, if the two causes of action are different, each with a different date of accrualthat being the basicdifference between the two sets of suitswe have only to determine the date of accrual of the second cause of action.	None
If the alleged date of death of Kishan Singh was the date of accrual of the previous cause of action, the date of accrual of the second could only be something other than this date of death of Kishan Singh.	None
It could not possibly be the same.	None
And, that other date of accrual could only be subsequent to 5th August, 1945, because, as indicated above, it was held in the previous suit that , the suit was premature on the ground that seven years since Kishan Singh was last heard of on 5th August, 1945, had not elapsed then.	None
Since the evidence was that he was last heard of at Ahmedabad on 5th August, 1945, the only possible date of accrual of the subsequent cause of action here could be seven years after that (i.e. 6th Au gust, 1952).	None
The suits before us were flied within three years of that date.	None
Therefore, I fail to see how the suits before us could possibly be held to be barred by Limitation.	None
44.	Issue
We must not forget that Article 2 of Schedule to the Punjab Limitation (Customs) Act 1 of 1920, lays down that limitation for a suit for possession, which applies to the case before us, commenced from the date on which the right to sue accrues and not from the date of death of the holder of property.	None
The term fight to sue must, I think, be equated with cause of action, unless the context indicates otherwise.	None
The choice of words used must be presumed to be deliberate.	None
I do not think that we can substitute the date of death for the date of accrual of the right to sue.	None
In the Limitation Act, as wel l as in other statutes, the accrual when intended to be tied to the date of some event, is specified as the date of that event.	None
Here, it is not so.	None
We cannot, without an obvious inconsistency with our findngs that the causes of action in the previous and subsequent limitations were different, hold that the date of accrual in both sets of suits is one and the same, that is to say, the actual date of death.	None
Such a view could, I think, be contrary also to the plaintiffs pleading where the difference in the causes of action must be found.	None
The solution to the difficulty before us emerges automatically if we answer two questions correctly What was the difference between the two causes of action ?	Issue
What is the effect of that difference upon the date of accrual of the subsequent and different cause of action ?	Issue
45.	None
It is well established that it is not in every suit for possession that the commencement of date dispossession must be established by the plaintiff.	None
It is only in a suit for possession, based on the allegation by the plaintiff of his own dispossession, t hat the burden has been held to be governed by Article 142 of the repealed Limitation Act (See Ram Gharib v. Bindhiyachal(A.I.R. 1934 All.	None
(ST.)	None
993.), and the plaintiff is required to prove the date of his dispossession within limitation.	None
It s equivalent, the present Article 64 of the Limitation Act of 1963, places the position beyond the region of every conceivable doubt 64.	None
For possession of Twelve years The date of immovable property dispossession.	None
based on previous possession and not on title, when the plaintiff while in possession of the property has been dispossessed.	None
Objects and Reasons Articles 142 and 144 of the existing Act have given rise to a good deal of confusion with respect to suits for possession by owners of property.	None
Article 64 as proposed replaces Art. 142, but is restricted to suits based on possessory title so that an owner of property does not lose his right to the property unless the defendant in possession is able to prove adverse posesssion.	None
(See Chitaley Raothe Limitatian Act 1903Vo1. II).	None
46.	Issue
There is no suggestion whatsoever in the suits before us that the plaintiffs were ever in possession so that no question of their dispossession could possibly arise.	None
It was a pure and simple suit for possession on the basis of title against which the defendants had not even alleged adverse possession.	None
Hence, there was, it seems to me, no room here for bringing in the actual date of death, constructively, as the date of some presumed dispossession or adverse possession which has not been asserted anywhere.	None
As pointed out earlier, the defendants seem to have cleverly drafted theft pleadings so that a Division Bench of the High Court, which had erroneously allowed the defendants appeals, had been misled into placing a burden upon the plaintiffs which, according to law, as I see it, could not rest there at all.	None
The Division Bench applied decisions on Section 14 of the Limitation Act when this provision could not, as explained below, be invoked at all.	None
47.	Issue
The plain and simple question which arose on the pleadings was whether seven years had elapsed since Kishan Singh was last heard of by those who would, in the natural course of events, have heard from or about him if he was alive, and if so, did this happen within three years before the filing of the suits ?	Issue
The plaintiffs have asserted and proved that this period of seven years had elapsed.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to them, their cause of action matured within three years of their suits.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even if, by some stretch of imagination, the concept of adverse posses sion of the defendants were to be introduced in this litigation, when neither the plaintiffs nor the defendants have pleaded it, it is abundantly clear that the legal position is that the possession of defendants could not conceivably be adverse to Kishan Singhs reversioners even before Kishan Singh could be presumed to be dead.	None
Indeed, the defendants had themselves set up the plea that he must be still deemed to be alive.	None
On these pleadings, the plaintiff could only be required to prove Kishan Singhs death but not the date of his death or the date of the plaintiffs dispossession which can occur only after a previous possession of the plain tiffs followed by the adverse possession of the defendants.	None
Neither cases dealing with recovery of possession on the plaintiffs allegation of his own dispossession nor those where proof of date of death was a nece ssary part of either the cause of action or the plaintiffs statutory duty, for showing that the suit was within time, are really applicable here.	None
We have a simple case before us where the cause of action seems to me to have clearly been shown to have arisen within three years before the filing of the suits.	None
Nevertheless, I will deal here with some authorities which are relied upon by my learned brother Jaswant Singh.	None
48.	Issue
The first of these is Nepean v. Deo D. Knight(English Reports 150 Exchequer p. 1021.).	None
In this case, an action for ejectment was brought, apparently on an allegation of dispossession of the plaintiff by the defendants.	None
It was pointed out here that the terms of a statute, applicable in the case, having done away with the doctrine of adverse possession, except in certain cases specially provided for, the question of adverse possession was unimportant.	None
It was, however, held that there was a statutory duty cast upon the plaintiff to bring his suit within twenty years of the accrual of the right of entry.	None
The date of this accrual, theref ore, became essential to prove as a statutory duty.	None
On the terms of statutory provisions to be construed and the facts of the particular case, Denman C. J. said (at p. 1029)	None
It is true the la w presumes that a person shewn to be alive at a given time remains alive until the contrary be shewn, for which reason the onus of shewing the death of Matthew Knight lay in this case on the lessor of the plaintiff.	None
He has shewn the death by proving the absence of Matthew Knight, and his not having been heard of for seven years, whence arises, at the end of those seven years, another presumption of law, namely, that he is not then alive but the onus is also cast on the lessor of the plaintiff of shewing that he has commenced his action within twenty years after his right of entry accrued, that is, after the actual death of Matthew Knight.	None
This was really a case in which it was not enough to invoke the presumption of death, but, the right to sue itself depended on commencing the suit within 20 years of the date of accrual of the right to entry which was held to be the actual date of death of Matthew Knight who had disappeared In the case before us, I think that the accrual of the right to sue arises only seven years after Kishan Singh was last heard of.	None
If Nepeans case (supra) could or did lay down anything applicable to the cases before us, I am unable, with great respect, to accept it as correct law which we could follow.	None
In my opinion, the facts as well as the applicable provisions of law in the case before us are very different from those in Nepeans case (supra) which could, in any event, not be more than an authority of some persuasive value in this Court.	None
49.	Issue
In Jaswant livanrao Deshpande v. Ramchandra Narayan Joshi, (A.I.R. 1916 Bom. 300 ) in a suit governed by Article 141 Limitation Act, it was held (at p. 301)	None
Art.	None
141 Lira.	None
Act, is merely an extension of Art. 140, with special reference to persons succeeding to an estate as reversioners upon the cessation of the peculiar estate of a Hindu widow.	None
But the plaintiffs case under each article rests upon the same principle.	None
The doctrine of nonadverse possession does not obtain in regard to such suits and the plaintiff suing in ejectment must prove, whether it be that he sues as a remainderman in the English sense or as a reversioner in the Hindu sense, that he sues within 12 years of the estate failing into possession, and that onus is in no way removed by any presumption which can be drawn according to the terms of S. 108, Evidence Act.	None
The exact point for the purpose of Art. 140, and also, in our opinion, of Art. 141, has been decided many years ago in England soon after the passing of the English Law of Limitation regarding Real Property in Nepean v. Deod.	None
Knight (1973) 2 M W 8947 L.J. Ex. 335.	None
50.	None
It is evident that here the cause of action laid down by the statute itself arises from actual date of death.	None
This case, like the previous one, turns on the special meaning of the statutory provisions prescribing a persons actual death as the point of time from which the period of limitation is to commence.	None
In the cases before us the statute explicitly makes a different provision.	None
We are not concerned at all here with anything more than an accrual of a right to sue which must be shewn to arise within the prescribed period.	None
No question of any accrual of a right of reentry or one arising from adverse possession or the date on which such rights could conceivably arise is before us at all.	None
51.	Issue
In Lal Chand Marwari v. Mahant Ramrup Gir Anr.	None
(A.I.R. 1926 P.C. 9.)	None
the suit seems to have been based on an allegation by the plaintiff of his own dispossession by the defendant.	None
Hence, it. was governed by Article 142 of the former Limitation Act, the equivalent of which is Article 64 of the Limitation Act of 1963.	None
It seems to me that Article 144 of the old Limitation Act is mentioned by mistake in the body of the judgment here.	None
In any event, the statement of facts showed that the plaintiff had pleaded his own dispossession, or, at least, the plaint could be so construed as to imply that.	None
Hence, a case of this type is distinguishable.	None
52.	Issue
In Jiwan Singh v. Kaur Reoti Singh Anr, (A.I.R. 1930 All.	None
427.)	None
a decree in a previous suit brought against a person alleged to be insane as well as not heard of for more than seven years had been assailed on several grounds that, the defendant was insane that, the defendant was unheard of for more than seven years, and, therefore, should have been deemed to be dead that, the decree was obtained by fraud.	None
As the High Court upheld the plea of fraud, it did not consider it necessary to decide on other grounds.	None
Nevertheless, it pointed out, quite correctly, that the presumption under Section 108 of the Evidence Act only enables the Court to presume the factum of death but not the date of death.	None
No question of limitation arose at all in this case.	None
53.	None
In Kottapalli Venkateswarlu v. Kottapalli Bapaya Ors, (A.I.R. 1957 AP.	None
380 .)	None
reliance was placed, Inter alia, on Punjab v. Natha, (A.I.R. 1931 Lah.	None
582 (F.B.).)	None
which, in my opinion, was wrongly decided.	None
Venkateswarlus case (supra), however.	None
arose on facts and circumstances in which the proof of date of death was neces sary to determine as the question was whether a legatee had survived the testator.	None
In such a case, proof of date of death is necessarily a part of the cause of action.	None
54.	Issue
In Ram Kali Ors.	None
v. Narain Singh, (A.I.R. 1934 Oudh 298 289, 300.)	None
it was held that (at s. 299300)	None
Before the plaintiff can succeed in approving himself to be the nearest reversionary heir, he must prove in sequence that Harpal Singh and after him Pahalwan Singh and after him Sheo Ghulam Singh and after him Kali Singh predeceased Ram Lal.	None
The exact date of Ram Lals death is important from the point of view of the success of the plaintiffs case, because it was only then that succession opened out, and it is only by proving the exact date of Ram Lals death that the plaintiff can succeed in establishing his claim to be the nearest reversionary heir of Ram Lal.	None
This, in my opinion, is the type of case in which the date of death is an essential part of the plaintiffs cause of action so that the failure to prove it would involve the failure of the plaintiffs suit.	None
Incidentally, it may be observed that this also seemed to be a case in which the plaintiff appears to have come to the Court with a suit for possession on the allegation of his own dispossession.	None
Hence, it became necessary for the plaintiff to prove the date of commencement of the defendants adverse interest.	None
It seems to me that wherever the accrual of a right or commencement of a period of limitation, within which a suit must be shewn by the plaintiff to have been brought, can only be established by proving the date of a persons death that duty must be discharged by the plaintiff or the suit will fail.	None
But, to carry the doctrine beyond that and to lay down that the date of death must invariably be proved whenever the question of limitation is raised in such cases must result in stultifying or defeating legal rights and wiping out the effects of a statutory presumption.	None
An accrual of a cause of action based on untraceability of the owner cannot be said to depend at all on proof of either actual death or the date of the actual death of the owner.	None
It accrues a s soon as death can be presumed and not a day earlier.	None
55.	None
I may point out that the rule laid down in re Phenes Trusts(5 Chancery Appeal cases p. 139 144.), which has been repeatedly followed by the Privy Council and by our.	None
High Courts, was enunciated in the circumstances of a case in which it was absolutely essential for the success of the claim before the Court that a legatee claimant must be shown to have survived a testator.	None
It was a case in which there wa s a competition between claimants which could only be resolved by a decision of the question as to who died first.	None
It is in such circumstances that the onus of proving the date of death also would properly and squarely lie upon the plaintiff claimant.	None
The general principles were thus enunciated in this case(at p. 144)	None
First That the law presumes a person who has not been heard of for seven years t o be dead, but in the absence of special circumstances draw s no presumption from that fact as to the particular period at which he died.	Facts
Secondly That a person alive at a certain period of time is, according to the ordinary presumption of law, to be presumed to be alive at the expiration of any reasonable period afterwards.	None
And, thirdly That the onus of proving death at any particular period within the seven years lies with the party alleging death at such particular period.	None
56.	None
It is neither a part of the case of any plaintiff before us nor necessary for the success of his case to prove that Kishan Singh died on a particular date or that.	None
Kishan Singh died before or after somebody else.	None
I, therefore, fail to see, with great respect, how the plaintiffs can be saddled w ith the responsibility to prove this date in the suits now before us.	None
It was nobodys case that Kishan Singh died long ago and that the defendants have been in open hostile ad verse possession against Kishan Singh and whoever may be his heirs or feversioners.	None
In the earliest litigation, the defendants claimed as transferees of the rights of Kishan Singh.	None
The declaratory decree restricted their rights to the life time of Kishan Singh.	None
Their rights could not extend beyond the point of time when Kishan Singh must be presumed to be dead.	None
That is the farthest limit of their rights.	None
They knew this after the litigation which terminated in 1902 .	None
That is why, in the suits now before us, they took up the alternative case, though rather obliquely, that Kishan Singh must be or at least deemed to be alive, so that they may benefit from the declaration in 1902 that their rights were limited to the lifetime of Kishan Singh.	None
57.	None
If, even after litigating for such a long period, the plaintiffs are still to be denied their rights to Kishan Singhs property, to which they were declared entitled to succeed, they would be really deprived of the benefit of the presumption under section 108 of the Evidence Act on the ground that they could not prove the date of his death when they have been asserting repeatedly that the basis of their present claim is that although the actual date of death of Kishan Singh cannot be proved, yet, he has not been heard of for seven years and that they had to wait seven years more for this claim to mature.	Arguments of Petitioner
That it could and did mature in 1952 follows logically from the judgment of the High Court in 1951 which is binding inter partes.	None
The plaintiffs are, in my opinion, on the actual basis of their claims, entitled to succeed.	None
That basis having emerged within three years before the filing of the suits, their suits could not possibly be barred by time.	None
If the right to sue had not been proved to have acc rued at all, due to want of proof of date of death of Kishan Singh, the suits could perhaps, more logically be held to be still premature or infructuous.	None
But, I fail to see how, even on such a view, we could hold them to be barred by time.	None
If the cause of action itself does not arise no question of the extinguishment by the law of limitation could emerge.	None
58.	None
If, for some reason, we could still hold that the plaintiffs claim s were made beyond the period of Limitation.	None
I think that this would be a fit case in which Section 14(1) of the Limitation Act could come to the aid of the plaintiffs provided there was identity of issues to be tried.	None
The previous suits did not fail for want of jurisdiction.	None
Nevertheless, the provision has to be liberally construed as this Court has to be a period of time, shown tohave elapsed since the expiry of the present suits was certainly due to the fact that no Court could decree the claim before the cause of action matured.	None
This was, certainly beyond the control of the plaintiffs.	None
Therefore, a cause of like nature to a defect of jurisdiction seems to me to be there.	None
Indeed, it could be urged that it is a stronger ground in equity than a lack of jurisdiction which can be foreseen with sufficient deligence	None
It is far more difficult to predict the outcome of a suit depending largely on oral evidence.	None
The defect revealed by the evidence in he earlier litigation was that the suits did not lie at all as they were premature.	None
This was, in my opinion, a defect reasonably comparable to want of jurisdiction.	None
59.	None
I, however, find it very difficult to attempt to apply Section 14 Limitation Act to the cases before us for two reasons.	None
Firstly, there has to be a period of time, shown to have elapsed since the expiry of the period of limitation, which could be excluded under section 14.	None
If the cause of action does not accrue at all there is no point of time from which any period of limitation could run.	None
Hence, if no cause of action could accrue at all unless and until the date of actual death of Kishan Singh is established, there could be no commencement of a period of limitation.	None
If that be the correct position, where is the question of excluding any time in computing it ?	None
The only possible point from which limitation could start running here is the date on which seven years expired from the date on which Kishan Singh was last heard of.	None
This was within three years before filing of the suits as pointed out above.	None
Secondly, Section 14 provides that the time to be excluded spent in proceedings prosecuted in good faith must relate to the same matter as is in issue in the subsequent proceeding.	None
It seems to me that the issue in the earlier litigation was whether Kishan Singh was actually shown to have died on a particular date.	None
This was quite different from the issue decided in the cases now before us.	None
This is whether Kishan Singhs whereabouts had remained unknown for seven years so that he could be presumed to be dead.	None
I, therefore, rest my judgment solely on the ground that, the causes of action in the previous litigation and the litigation now before us being different, and the subsequent cause of action having arisen within three years before the filing of t he suits before us, the suits were not barred by limitation.	None
60.	None
The Division Bench of the Punjab High Court had proceeded on the obviously erroneous assumption that the learned Single Judge had decided the appeals only by giving the appellants the benefit of Section 14, sub. s	None
(1) of the Limitation Act.	None
It had overlooked completely the very first ground of decision of the learned Single Judge and also the condition imposed by the learned Judge on the application of Section 14 by.	None
using the words if found necessary.	None
The learned Judge had held Admittedly, .	None
the whereabouts of Kishan Singh are still not known and, in my opinion, there can be no escape from the conclusion on these facts that the death of Kishan Singh must be presumed under Section 108 of the Indian Evidence Act as he had not been heard of for a period of seven years.	Facts
The present suits were brought between 21st of October, 1952 and 5th of May, 1953.	Facts
The correct approach to reach a solution of the present problem is to give allowance to the plaintiffs, if found necessary.	None
for the period which they spent in previous litigation that is to say, from the years 1945 to 1951.	None
61.	None
The Division Bench had thus completely ignored the effect of the finding of a new cause of action arising within three years before t he filing of the plaintiffs suits.	None
In my opinion, this finding of the learned Single Judge was enough to dispose of these appeals.	None
And, as I have pointed out above, question of either a time bar or its removal by resorting to Section 14(1) Limitation Act postulates that a point of time from which lirai, ration can run has been ascertained.	None
As that point, on the findings of every Court, including this Court, could not be the date o f Kishan Singhs death, which is unknown, the suits could not possibly be dismissed on that ground.	None
They could con ceivably be dismissed on the finding that the date of death of Kishan Singh, being an indispensable part of the cause of action, the plaints do not disclose a cause of action at all, and, therefore, should have been rejected.	None
But, the defendants have not taken any such plea directly.	None
Nor was this argued on heir behalf.	None
62.	None
For the reasons given above, I regret to have to respectfully differ from the view adopted by my learned brother Jaswant Singh.	None
I am unable to accept an interpretation of the relevant provision prescribing limitation which would confine the accrual of a cause of action only to cases of direct proof of death, on a particular date.	None
Such a view implies that suits based on a presumption of death are devoid a cause of action which could support a suit by a reversioner.	None
I do not think that the provision we have to interpret was meant to define or restrict a right of suit or a cause of action in this fashion at all.	None
The object of a statute of repose is only to extinguish rights of the indolent but not to demolish the causes of action of those who have not been shewn lacking in vigilance in any way whatsoever.	None
63.	None
Consequently, I would allow these appeals, set aside the judgment and decrees of the Division Bench of the High Court and restore those of the learned Single Judge and leave parties to bear their own costs throughout.	Decision
Appeals dismissed.	Decision
