Pinaki Chandra Ghose, J. This appeal is directed against the judgment and order dated 1st April, 2009 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Criminal Application No.940 of 2008 whereby the High Court has rejected the prayer for leave to appeal against the judgment of the Trial Court.	Issue
The brief facts of this case are as follows The appellant supplied goods to M s. Shah Agencies.	Facts
The 1st and 2nd respondents carried their business in the names of M s. Shah Enterprises and M s. Shah Agencies.	Facts
In part discharge of the liability of M s. Shah Agencies, two cheques for Rs. 5 lakhs each, both dated 20th August, 2000, drawn on the Vysya Bank Ltd., S.P. Road, Secunderabad, signed by Respondent No.2 as Power of Attorney Holder of Respondent No.1, were issued on an account maintained by M s. Shah Enterprises.3.	Facts
On presentation, both the cheques were dishonoured due to insufficient balance in the account of M s. Shah Enterprises.	Facts
A demand notice dated 8th March, 2001 was served upon respondent Nos.1 2 which was duly received by them on 13th March, 2001.	Facts
The respondents failed and neglected to comply with the said notice of demand.	Facts
Hence, a complaint was lodged before the Metropolitan Magistrate, 28th Court, Esplanade, Mumbai.	Facts
The said complaint was numbered as CC No.505/S/01 dated 17th April, 2001.	Facts
The said complaint was lodged against the accused respondents describing accused No.1 as the Proprietor of M s. Shah Enterprises and accused No.2 as Power of Attorney Holder of the said M s. Shah Enterprises.	Facts
The Trial Court acquitted the respondents on the ground that the appellant did not institute the case against the partnership firm i.e. M s. Shah Enterprises.4.	Facts
Being aggrieved by the said order passed by the Metropolitan Magistrate, the appellant filed an application for leave to appeal under subsection (4) of Section 378 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, before the Bombay High Court.	Facts
The High Court by its order dated April 1, 2009 held that the applicant has not made out a case for grant of leave to appeal under Section 378(4) Cr.P.C. and rejected the said application for leave to appeal.	Facts
The High Court held that the case made out in the complaint was that the goods were sold and supplied to M s. Shah Enterprises and the liability was of M s. Shah Enterprises.	Facts
While in the affidavit in lieu of examinationinchief, the appellant herein came out with a case that the liability was that of M s. Shah Agencies as goods were sold and supplied to M s. Shah Agencies and it was not the case of the appellant that the accused had agreed to take over and discharge the liabilities of M s. Shah Agencies.	Facts
The question which arose before us is whether the High Court was correct in coming to such a conclusion.	Issue
The High Court duly perused the complaint, affidavit in lieu of examinationinchief of the applicant, his crossexamination and other material documents on record.	None
From these documents it appears that notice of demand had been addressed to the first respondent in her capacity as a Proprietor of M s. Shah Enterprises, and to the second respondent in his capacity as the Power of Attorney Holder of M s. Shah Enterprises.	Facts
In the notice itself it has been stated that the goods were sold and supplied to the Proprietor of M s. Shah Agencies.	Facts
In the notice it has been further stated that the appellant is engaged in business of manufacturing and selling of synthetic Polymers Resins and in response to the orders from the 2nd respondent as Proprietor of Shah Agencies, the applicant has supplied goods from time to time and the disputed cheques were issued in discharge of the liabilities of such supply.	Facts
The notice was addressed to the Proprietor and the constituted Attorney of M s. Shah Enterprises, but there is no specific averment that the liability of M s. Shah Agencies was taken over by M s. Shah Enterprises.	Facts
In the complaint, the first respondent was impleaded as Proprietor of M s. Shah Enterprises and the second respondent was impleaded as a Power of Attorney Holder of M s. Shah Enterprises.6.	Facts
After perusing the notice and the averments made in the complaint and the examinationinchief, the High Court found that the case made out by the appellant applicant in the aforesaid affidavit is that accused No.1 was one of the partners of M s. Shah Enterprises.	Facts
It is not asserted that accused No.2 is the partner of the said firm but what is stated is that accused No.2 is the husband of accused No.1 and Power of Attorney Holder of M s. Shah Enterprises.	Facts
After perusing the aforesaid facts, the High Court came to the conclusion as follows It is not the specific case of the applicant made out in the complaint that the first accused in his capacity of proprietor of Shah Enterprises and the second accused in his capacity of power of attorney of Shah Enterprises had agreed to take over and discharge the liability of M s. Shah Agency.	Facts
Reliance is placed by the applicant on the letter at Exh.P5.	Facts
Apart from the fact that the said letter is no evidence to show that the liability of Shah Agency was taken over by Shah Enterprises, as stated earlier, the said case was never made out by the applicant in the complaint.	Facts
The said case made out in the complaint is that the liability is of M s. Shah Enterprises and not of M s. Shah Agencies.	Facts
The letter dated 7th December 2000 at Exh. P5 is not signed by accused No.1 who according to the applicant is the proprietor or partner of Shah Enterprises.	Facts
The letter has been sent by accused No.2 in his capacity as constituted attorney of Shah Agencies.	Facts
Therefore, the letter cannot be termed as a document under which the liability of Shah Agencies was specifically agreed to be taken over by the Shah Enterprises or by the accused Nos.1 and 2.	None
In these circumstances, the High Court held that no case is made out for grant of leave and rejected the application.	None
Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant contended before us that both the Courts below have failed to appreciate that the complaint was essentially filed against the accused in their personal capacities since at the time of filing of the complaint, the appellant believed that M s. Shah Enterprises was a proprietary concern of respondent No.1.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further contended that respondent No.2 was a signatory of the cheques and he was incharge of the affairs of M s. Shah Enterprises.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, both the Courts adopted highly technical view of the matter.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not in dispute that the cheques were drawn from the account maintained with M s. Shah Enterprises.	Arguments of Petitioner
When this Court asked the learned counsel for the appellant whether there is any liability of M s. Shah Agency, then it was submitted that the cheques were drawn by M s. Shah Enterprises but the liability, as would be evident from the examinationinchief, is that of M s. Shah Agency.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel further submitted that Section 141 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (hereinafter referred to as the NI Act) has no application because the partnership firm was not arrayed as an accused.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submitted that respondent No.2 is liable being a signatory of both the cheques and he was incharge of M s. Shah Enterprises.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the contrary, it is submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents that both the Trial Court as well as the High Court rightly came to the conclusion that the complaint was not maintainable against the partnership firm since cheques were issued on behalf of the first respondent.	Arguments of Respondent
Furthermore M s. Shah Enterprises was never given any statutory notice nor it was arrayed as an accused before the Metropolitan Magistrate.	Arguments of Respondent
He further submitted that a three Judge Bench of this Court in the case of Aneetha Hada vs. Godfather Travel and Tours Pvt. Ltd., (2012) 5 SCC 661 , held that for maintaining the prosecution under the NI Act, the company should be made a party irrespective of the fact that its Director has been arrayed as an accused.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for the respondents further submitted that this appeal should be dismissed since the material facts have been suppressed from the Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellant ceased to be the Proprietor of M s. Satyen	Arguments of Respondent
Polymer as per the deed of assignment cum conveyance dated 3.4.2008.	Arguments of Respondent
The said fact was deliberately suppressed from the High Court as well as from the Trial Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellant did not make M s. Shah Enterprises as a party on whose account the cheque was drawn.	Arguments of Respondent
Furthermore, M s. Shah Enterprises had no outstanding liabilities.	Arguments of Respondent
The complainant himself admitted in his crossexamination that nothing was sold to Shah Enterprises and at no point of time Shah Agencies has been prosecuted.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellant further admits that he has no account with Shah Enterprises and he has running account with Shah Agencies.	Arguments of Respondent
He also admitted that the transactions and dealings with Shah Agencies are reflected in the books of accounts.	Arguments of Respondent
He further admitted that Shah Enterprises is not liable to pay any amount M s. Satyen Polymers, and there were no transactions with Shah Enterprises.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for the respondents submitted that in these circumstances, this appeal should be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
We have heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and we have perused the evidence placed before us.	None
From a bare reading of Section 138 of the NI Act, the first and foremost essential ingredient for attracting a liability under this Section is that the person who is to be made liable should be the drawer of the cheque and should have drawn the cheque on an account maintained by him with a banker for payment of any amount of money to another person from out of that account for discharge, in whole or part, of any debt or other liability.	Reasoning
In this context, this Court in the case of Krishna Texport and Capital Markets Ltd. v. Ila A. Agrawal Ors, (AIR 2015 SC 2091 ), has held as under  The notice under Section 138 is required to be given to the drawer of the cheque so as to give the drawer an opportunity to make the payment and escape the penal consequences.	None
No other person is contemplated by Section 138 as being entitled to be issued such notice.	None
The plain language of Section 138 is very clear and leaves no room for any doubt or ambiguity.	None
There is nothing in Section 138 which may even remotely suggest the issuance of notice to anyone other than the drawer.	None
The learned counsel for the respondents has relied upon the case of Anil Hada v. Indian Acrylic Ltd., (2000) 1 SCC 1 , wherein this Court held Normally an offence can be committed by human beings who are natural persons.	Arguments of Respondent
Such offence can be tried according to the procedure established by law.	Arguments of Respondent
But there are offences which could be attributed to juristic person also.	Arguments of Respondent
If the drawer of a cheque happens to be a juristic person like a body corporate it can be prosecuted for the offence under Section 138 of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Now there is no scope for doubt regarding that aspect in view of the clear language employed in Section 141 of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
In the expanded ambit of the word company even firms or any other associations of persons are included and as a necessary adjunct thereof a partner of the firm is treated as director of that company.(Emphasis supplied)	None
Thus when the drawer of the cheque who falls within the ambit of Section 138 of the Act is a human being or a body corporate or even firm, prosecution proceedings can be initiated against such drawer.	None
In this context the phrase as well as used in Subsection (1) of Section 141 of the Act has some importance.	Arguments of Respondent
The said phrase would embroil the persons mentioned in the first category within the tentacles of the offence on a par with the offending company.	Arguments of Respondent
Similarly the words shall also in Subsection (2) are capable of bringing the third category persons additionally within the dragnet of the offence on an equal par.	None
The effect of reading Section 141 is that when the company is the drawer of the cheque such company is the principal offender under Section 138 of the Act and the remaining persons are made offenders by virtue of the legal fiction created by the legislature as per the section.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence the actual offence should have been committed by the company, and then alone the other two categories of persons can also become liable for the offence.	Arguments of Respondent
In our opinion, the High Court has correctly come to the conclusion that the liabilities of M s. Shah Agencies were never taken over by M s. Shah Enterprises.	Reasoning
Therefore, the reasoning given by the High Court, in our opinion, is absolutely flawless and we find no ground to interfere with the concurrent findings of the Trial Court and the High Court.	Reasoning
Therefore, the present appeal is devoid of any merit.	Decision
Accordingly, this appeal is dismissed.	Decision
