 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted.	None
Appellants father Rameshwar Mahto was employed as a Fitter, Category IV, in a coal mine belonging to the respondent known as Kuju Colliery.	Facts
He died in harness on 23.02.1997.	Facts
The terms and conditions of the service of the workmen working in coal mines are inter alia governed by a Settlement known as National Coal Wage Agreement (N.C.W.A.)	Facts
V. Indisputably, the said settlement, in terms of Subsection (3) of Section 18 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 is binding on the parties.	Facts
Clause 9.3.2 of N.C.W.A. V refers to appointment of dependants of the deceased employees working in the coal mines subclause (iii) of Clause 9.5.0 whereof reads as under In case of death either in mine accident or for other reasons or medical unfitness under clause 9.4.0, if no employment has been offered and the male dependent of the concerned worker is 15 years and above in age he will be kept on a live roster and would be provided employment commensurate with his skill and qualifications when he attains the age of 18 years.	Facts
During the period the male dependant is on live roster, the female dependant will be paid monetary compensation as per rates at paras (I) and (ii) above.	Facts
Appellant filed an application for appointment on compassionate ground on 25.10.1997.	None
The same was denied to him inter alia on the premise that he was a minor at the relevant time.	Facts
He filed an application in prescribed form upon attaining majority on 26.09.1999 which was rejected by an order dated 3.08.2000 stating With reference to the letter No. GM(K)	Facts
PD9.3.2/2000/749 dated Nil of Staff Officer (P), Kuju Area this is to inform you that the proposal has not been agreed by the competent authority since the dependent was not eligible for employment as he was under age and also his name was not kept in live roaster.	Facts
Also there was considerable delay in applying for employment by the dependent.	None
Respondent purported to have issued a circular letter on 12.12.1995 providing for six months limitation for filing such an application for appointment on compassionate ground from the date of death of the concerned employees in the following terms It has been observed from the details of the statements prepared and submitted by the Area for Placement Interview under para 9.4.2 of NCWAIV, that cases pertaining to the period beyond 6 months are also entertained without any reasoning.	Facts
Considering this situation also in order to streamline the activities of the manpower and to have effective control over it, it has been decided that the cases falling beyond 6 months from the date of death of the concerned employees, the dependent of the deceased employees will not be entertained, unless express permission is given by Hqtrs.	Facts
after thorough scrutiny of the case.	Facts
Now as action will be taken against those who fail to complete the work within stipulated time.	Facts
Therefore, all the Staff Officers (Pers.) should discuss this matter with the Personnel Executives of the Unit Establishments and advise them accordingly.	None
It was replaced by another circular letter issued in the year 2000 stating It has been observed from the case files received from areas for appointment of dependants of exemployees under para 9.3.2 of NCWA V VI that the cases pertaining to the period beyond six months are also entertained and sent without any reasoning.	Facts
Therefore, vide circular No. PD MP/9.4.2/95/1151 dated 12.12.95 all areas were advised that the cases falling beyond six months from the date of death of the concerned employee will not be entertained unless express permission is given by Hqtrs.	Facts
after thorough scrutiny of the case.	Facts
Now in view of the persistent demands of unions relaxation was granted for one year from Feb. 2000 which was subsequently discussed and reviewed in the meeting held with unions at Corporate Level.	Facts
It was decided that henceforth application submitted under clause 9.3.2.	Facts
within one year after demise of an employee will not be treated as belated case.	Facts
Thus the application submitted by dependant concerned after expiry of one year from the date of death of exemployee will not be considered for employment.	Facts
A writ petition was filed by the appellant before the High Court of Jharkhand, Ranchi which was marked as WPS No. 471 of 2003 questioning the order declining him the grant of appointment on compassionate ground by the respondent.	Issue
Before the High Court, the respondent took a stand that as the elder brother of the appellant has already been in employment, he was not entitled thereto.	Facts
The said contention has since been given up.	Facts
A learned Single Judge of the High Court took notice of the aforementioned circulars visvis the relevant provisions of N.C.W.A. V holding From the scheme quoted herein above, it is clear that if on the date of death of the deceased employee, the male dependant is 15 years and above in age then he will be kept on a live roster and would be provided employment commensurate with his skill and qualification when he attains the age of 18 years.	Facts
During the period the male dependant is on live roster, the female dependant will be paid monetary compensation.	Facts
Admittedly, in 1997 petitioner was more than 15 years of age and an application was filed by the petitioner in 1997 but neither the petitioner was kept in live roster nor the widow of the deceased employee was paid monetary compensation.	Facts
After attaining 18 years of age petitioner as per the aforesaid clause applied for compassionate appointment in 1999 which has been arbitrarily rejected by the respondents on the ground of delay.	Facts
While the petitioner approached this court by filing instant writ application third case has been made out by the respondents that petitioners appointment was refused on the ground of his elder brother, having been in employment of the subsidiary company.	Facts
This fact was subsequently falsified in the manner discussed herein above.	Facts
For the aforesaid reasons, this writ application is allowed and the impugned letters are quashed.	Facts
Respondents are directed to give benefit of National Coal Wage Agreement  VI to the petitioner by appointing him in place of his deceased father, who died in harness, as regular employee of the Company.	None
7	None
An intracourt appeal was preferred there against by the respondent herein which by reason of the impugned judgment was allowed by a Division Bench stating In the case of Commissioner of Public Instructions Vs. K.R. Vishwanath, reported in 2005 (7) SCC 206 , the Supreme Court held that the Court has no jurisdiction to extend the period of limitation and so was of the view of the Division Bench of this Court in the case of Sushil Kumar Vengra Vs. Union of India reported in 2005 (1) JCR 282 (Jhr.)	None
Mr. Rajesh Kumar, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, inter alia submitted (i) the Division Bench of the High Court committed a serious error in relying upon the judgment of this Court in Commissioner of Public Instructions and Others v. K.R. Vishwanath (2005) 7 SCC 206 as therein a statutory rule was made providing for a limitation of one year for filing an application for appointment on compassionate ground from the date of death of the employee (ii) The period of six months envisaged under the circular letter dated 12.12.1995 will have no application as (a) it is directory in nature and (b) the same was substituted by another circular of 2000.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dr. A.M.Singhvi, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents, on the other hand, urged Respondent as an employer is entitled to take a policy decision in regard to implementation of the settlement.	None
Grant of appointment on compassionate ground, being an exception to Article 16 of the Constitution of India, should be strictly construed.	None
As the circular letter issued in 2000 is prospective in nature, the same will have no application in the instant case.	Arguments of Respondent
A settlement within the meaning of Subsection (3) of Section 18 of the Industrial Disputes Act is binding on both the parties and continues to remain in force unless the same is altered, modified or substituted by another settlement.	Facts
No period of limitation was provided in the settlement.	None
We would assume that the respondent had jurisdiction to issue such circular prescribing a period of limitation for filing application for grant of appointment on compassionate ground.	None
But, such circular was not only required to be strictly complied with but also was required to be read keeping in view the settlement entered into by and between the parties.	None
The expanding definition of workman as contained in Section 2(s) of the Industrial Disputes Act would confer a right upon the appellant to obtain appointment on compassionate ground, subject, of course, to compliance of the conditions precedent contained therein.	None
The right to obtain appointment on compassionate grounds emanates from the settlement.	None
Settlement is defined in Section 2(p) of the Industrial Disputes Act to mean a settlement arrived at in the course of conciliation proceeding and includes a written agreement between the employer and workmen arrived at otherwise than in the course of conciliation proceeding where such agreement has been signed by the parties thereto in such manner as may be prescribed and a copy thereof has been sent to an officer authorized in this behalf by the appropriate Government and the conciliation officer.	None
Even in regard to prescription of a period of limitation, the respondent ought to have kept in view the spirit thereof.	None
We are not oblivious that grant of appointment on compassionate ground is an exception to Article 16(1) of the Constitution of India.	None
In I.G. (Karmik) and Ors.	None
v. Prahalad Mani Tripathi 2007 (6) SCALE 370 , this Court observed An employee of a State enjoys a status.	None
Recruitment of employees of the State is governed by the rules framed under a statute or the proviso appended to Article 309 of the Constitution of India.	None
In the matter of appointment, the State is obligated to give effect to the constitutional scheme of equality as adumbrated under Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India.	None
All appointments, therefore, must conform to the said constitutional scheme.	None
This Court, however, while laying emphasis on the said proposition carved out an exception in favour of the children or other relatives of the officer who dies or who becomes incapacitated while rendering services in the police department.	None
See Yogender Pal Singh and Others v. Union of India and Others A.I.R. 1987 SC 1015 .	None
Public employment is considered to be a wealth.	None
It in terms of the constitutional scheme cannot be given on descent.	None
When such an exception has been carved out by this Court, the same must be strictly complied with.	None
Appointment on compassionate ground is given only for meeting the immediate hardship which is faced by the family by reason of the death of the bread earner.	None
When an appointment is made on compassionate ground, it should be kept confined only to the purpose it seeks to achieve, the idea being not to provide for endless compassion.	None
In National Institute of Technology Ors.	None
v. Niraj Kumar Singh 2007 (2) SCALE 525 , this Court has stated the law in the following terms All public appointments must be in consonance with Article 16 of the Constitution of India.	None
Exceptions carved out therefore are the cases where appointments are to be given to the widow or the dependent children of the employee who died in harness.	None
Such an exception is carved out with a view to see that the family of the deceased employee who has died in harness does not become a destitute.	None
No appointment, therefore, on compassionate ground can be granted to a person other than those for whose benefit the exception has been carved out.	None
Other family members of the deceased employee would not derive any benefit thereunder.	None
In State Bank of India and Another v. Somvir Singh (2007) 4 SCC 778 , this Court held There is no dispute whatsoever that the appellantBank is required to consider the request for compassionate appointment only in accordance with the scheme framed by it and no discretion as such left with any of the authorities to make compassionate appointment de hors the scheme.	None
In our considered opinion the claim for compassionate appointment and the right, if any, is traceable only to the scheme, executive instructions, rules etc. framed by the employer in the matter of providing employment on compassionate grounds.	None
There is no right of whatsoever nature to claim compassionate appointment on any ground other than the one, if any, conferred by the employer by way of scheme or instructions as the case may be.	None
The period of six months limitation prescribed in the circular letter dated 12.12.1995 was not statutory.	None
It is also not imperative in character.	None
Even for entertaining such an application beyond the period of six months, the Headquarters of the Central Coal Field Limited is entitled to consider the facts and circumstances of each case.	None
Admittedly, Appellant filed an application for grant of appointment on compassionate ground when he was a minor.	None
His application was rejected on that premise at the first instance but even at that point of time the respondent did not take a stand that the same had not been entertained on the ground that the same was filed after expiry of the period of six months.	None
It is neither in doubt nor in dispute that the case for grant of compassionate appointment of a minor was required to be considered in terms of Subclause (iii) of Clause 9.5.0 of the N.C.W.A.V. In terms of the said provision, the name of the appellant was to be kept on a live roster.	None
He was to remain on the live roster till he attained the age of 18 years.	None
Respondents did not perform their duties cast on them thereunder.	None
It took an unilateral stand that an application has been filed in the year 1999 in the prescribed form.	None
For complying with the provisions of a settlement which is binding on the parties, bona fide or otherwise of the respondent must be judged from the fact as to whether it had discharged his duties thereunder or not.	None
In this case, not only it failed and or neglected to do so, but as indicated hereinbefore it took an unholy stand that the elder brother of the appellant being employed, he was not entitled to appointment on the compassionate ground.	None
Thus, what really impelled the respondent in denying the benefit of compassionate appointment to the appellant is, therefore, open to guess.	None
We expect a public sector undertaking which is a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India not only to act fairly but also reasonably and bona fide.	None
In this case, we are satisfied that the action of the respondent is neither fair nor reasonable nor bona fide.	None
We have indicated hereinbefore, that it is not necessary for us to go into the question as to whether on the teeth of the provision of N.C.W.A.V., the respondent at all had any power to fix a time limit and thereby curtailing the right of the workman concerned.	Reasoning
We would assume that even in such a matter, it had a right.	Reasoning
But, even for the said purpose, keeping in view the fact that a beneficial provision is made under a settlement, the State was expected to act reasonably.	Reasoning
While so acting, it must provide for a period of limitation which is reasonable.	Reasoning
Apart from the fact that the period of limitation provided for in the circular letter with a power of relaxation can never be held to be imperative in character, the matter should also be considered from the subsequent conduct of the respondent insofar as it had issued another circular letter in the year 2000 providing for filing of an application for appointment on compassionate ground within a period of one year.	Reasoning
It may be that the said circular letter has prospective operation but even in relation thereto we may notice that whereas the said circular letter was issued upon holding discussion with the Unions, the circular letter of the year 1995 was an unilateral one.	Reasoning
Furthermore, in its letter dated 2/3.08.2000, it will bear repetition to state, expiry of the period of limitation was not taken as a ground for rejecting his application.	Reasoning
Underage and nonplacement of his name in live roster are stated to be the reasons.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, unfair on the part of the respondent to raise such a plea for the first time in its counteraffidavit to the writ petition.	Reasoning
If he was underage, definitely, it was obligatory on the part of the respondent to keep his name in the live roster.	Reasoning
It was not done.	None
Reliance placed by the High Court on K.R. Vishwanath (supra), with respect, is misplaced.	None
Therein, the terms and conditions of the parties were governed by a statute known as Karnataka Civil Services (Appointment on Compassionate Grounds) Rules, 1996.	Reasoning
Rule 5 of the said Rules provided for a period of limitation.	Reasoning
The said decision, therefore, cannot be said to have any application whatsoever in the instant case.	None
In Umesh Kumar Nagpal v. State of Haryana and Others (1994) 4 SCC 138 whereupon reliance has been placed by Dr. Singhvi, this Court held For these very reasons, the compassionate employment cannot be granted after a lapse of a reasonable period which must be specified in the rules.	None
The consideration for such employment is not a vested right which can be exercised at any time in future.	Reasoning
The object being to enable the family to get over the financial crisis which it faces at the time of the death of the sole breadwinner, the compassionate employment cannot be claimed and offered whatever the lapse of time and after the crisis is over.	Reasoning
What should be a reasonable period would depend upon the rules operating in the field.	None
For the reasons aforementioned, the impugned judgment cannot be sustained which is set aside accordingly.	Decision
The appeal is allowed.	Decision
Respondent is hereby directed to offer appointment to the appellant on a suitable post within eight weeks from date.	Decision
As the appellant is not in employment for a long time, he is entitled to costs throughout.	Decision
Counsels fee assessed at Rs. 25,000/.	Decision
