 L. Dattu, CJI.	None
This appeal is directed against the judgment and order, passed by the High Court of Judicature for Maharashtra at Bombay in Confirmation Case No.1 of 2012 and Criminal Appeal No.632 of 2012, dated 12.09.2012, 13.09.2012, 24.09.2012 and 25.09.2012.	None
By the impugned judgment and order, the High Court has confirmed the judgment of conviction and order of sentence passed by the Court of Sessions Judge, Pune in Sessions Case No.284 of 2008, dated 20.03.2012, whereby the learned Sessions Judge has convicted the accusedappellants for the offence under Sections 302, 376(2)(g), 364 and 404 read with Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short, the IPC) and consequently awarded death sentence.	Issue
The Prosecution case in a nutshell is The deceased was residing with her brotherinlaw and sister, namely PW12 and PW13 respectively, along with their minor son, in a flat in Pune City.	Facts
She was serving as an Associate in the BPO Branch of Wipro Company in Pune (for short, the Company) for about a year, where she used to work in the nightshift, i.e. from 1100 p.m. to 0900 a.m.	Facts
The fateful day was to be her last day since she had tendered her resignation one month prior.	Facts
The Company had arranged for and hired a private cab service to transport its employees from their residence to the workplace and back at the conclusion of their respective workshifts.	Facts
Further, to ensure the safety and security of its female employees the Company imposed a mandatory condition, upon the owner of the cab, that a security guard be present in the said vehicle, if a female employee was being transported.3.	Facts
On the fateful day, being 01.11.2007, the cab was deputed to pick up the deceased from her residence at 1030 p.m., following which the cab would collect three other employees of the Company.	Facts
As per the usual practice, at about 1015 p.m., the deceased received a missed call from the driver of the cab, Purushottam Borate, namely Accused No.1, informing her of the pickup.	Facts
The deceased called back the Accused No.1 to pick her up in 10 minutes to take her to the workplace, upon which PW12 and his son went down from their flat to drop her to the cab.	Facts
At the time of the pickup, Pradeep Kokade, namely Accused No.2, was sitting in the rear seat behind the driver.	Facts
The next employee to be collected by the cab was one Sagar Bidkar, i.e. PW11, and the expected time of the said pick up was at about 1045 p.m.4.	Facts
During the journey, between 1030 p.m. and 1100 p.m., the deceased received calls on her mobile phone by one Jeevan Baral, a friend of the deceased residing in Bangalore, namely PW14, who heard the former questioning the Accused No.1 as to where he was taking the cab, why he had stopped in a jungle and what he was doing.	Facts
Thereafter, the phone call between the deceased and PW14 was abruptly disconnected and subsequent attempts by the latter to call the deceased were rendered futile as her mobile phone was found to be switched off.	Facts
Further, PW14 was unable to contact either the Pune Police or the relatives of the deceased in Pune till the following day.5.	Facts
It is the case of the prosecution that the Accused No.1 and 2, being aware of the fact that the deceased would be travelling to her workplace that night and that she would be the first to be collected, under the guise of taking the deceased to the said workplace, hatched a conspiracy to abduct her and take her to a secluded spot.	Facts
The prosecution has alleged that, in the time period between the abrupt end to the aforementioned phone call with PW14 and the pickup of PW11 at about 1245 a.m., the Accused No.1 and 2 committed the heinous offence of gangrape and thereafter murdered her by means of strangulating her with her own Odhani, slashing her wrist with a blade and smashing her head with a stone.	Facts
Further, that the accusedappellants stripped the deceased of her possessions and money and then left her body in the field of one Kisan Bodke.6.	Facts
Thereafter, the cab in question, containing the Accused No.1 and 2, arrived at about 1245 a.m., i.e. delayed by nearly two hours, to pick up PW11 from his residence.	Facts
At the time, the deceased was no longer present in the cab.	Facts
The Accused No.1 informed the PW11 that neither the deceased nor the other employees had come for work that day and the cause of the delay was on account of a punctured tyre.	Facts
The Accused No.2 vacated the cab shortly before the Accused No.1 brought the PW11 to the workplace.7.	Facts
On the following morning, being 02.11.2007, one Pankaj Laxman Bodke, i.e. PW8, noticed the dead body of a female on the boundary of the field of Kisan Bodke and therefore informed one Hiraman Bodke, i.e. PW1, of the same.	Facts
PW1, after verifying the information, informed the Police Station, Talegaon Dabhade, where an FIR was promptly lodged.	Facts
Therefore, an offence under Section 302 of the IPC was registered and the spot panchanama was prepared in the presence of PW3.	Facts
Inquest report and panchanama was also prepared in the presence of PW2 and thereafter the body of the deceased was sent for postmortem examination.	Facts
Furthermore, bloodstained stone, a pair of ladies sandal, bloodstained blade, soil mixed with blood and sample soil was seized from the spot of the incident.	Facts
The clothes found on the body of the deceased, after the postmortem examination, were also duly seized.	Facts
Dr. Waghmare, i.e. PW16, who performed the postmortem examination, gave the opinion that the cause of death was due to shock and hemorrhage due to grievous injuries to vital organs with skull fracture involving frontal, left temporal, parietal bone with laceration to brain with fractured ribs, right lung ruptured with strangulation.	Facts
Further, on the basis of the report of the Chemical Analyzer, PW16 gave the opinion that the deceased was a victim of the offence of rape prior to her death.8.	Facts
In the meanwhile, on 02.11.2007 itself, due to the fact that the deceased had not returned home the next day, her sister, i.e. PW13, started to make enquiries as to her whereabouts.	Facts
PW13 was informed by the Company that the deceased had not reported to the workplace on the previous night.	Facts
Further, PW13 received information, from PW14, about the events pertaining to the telephonic conversation with the deceased between 1030 p.m. and 1100 p.m. on that fateful night.	Facts
Therefore, a missing persons report was immediately filed that evening itself in the Chatushringi Police Station.9.	Facts
On 03.11.2007, PW12 and PW13 were informed that a dead body has been recovered within the jurisdiction of the Talegaon Dabhade Police Station.	Facts
Consequently, the said PW12 and PW13 reached the Police Station and on the basis of a photograph of the body of the deceased and the clothes that were seized, they confirmed the identity of the deceased.	Facts
Furthermore, the PW12 and PW13 also confirmed that the body at the morgue was that of the deceased.10.	Facts
After the aforesaid FIR, dated 02.11.2007, was registered, the Police duly initiated an investigation and made inquires with the Company.	Facts
Consequently, the Accused No.1 and 2 were taken into custody, at about 0530 a.m., on 03.11.2007.	Facts
Thereafter, based on confessional statements of the accusedappellants, the police were able to recover the stolen items belonging to the deceased, from their respective houses, namely sim card, mobile phone, ear ring, watch, gold ring.	Facts
The vehicle in which the deceased was taken by the accusedappellants was also seized and the panchanama was prepared.	Facts
Further, the Test Identification Parade was conducted, on 14.01.2008, wherein the PW12 identified the Accused No. 1 and 2 as the persons in the cab with the deceased.11.	Facts
Pursuant to the investigations, a chargesheet was duly filed by the police.	Facts
On 05.03.2009, the charges were framed under Sections 364, 376(2)(g) and 302 read with 34 and 404 read with 34 of the IPC.	Facts
On 03.04.2010, the charge was altered and the independent charge of conspiracy under Section 120B of the IPC was added.	Facts
Additionally, the charge under Section 120B of the IPC was added with the charge under Sections 302, 376(2)(g), 364 and 404 of the IPC.	Facts
The accusedappellants pleaded not guilty to the aforesaid charges and thus, the case was committed to trial.12.	Facts
During the course of the Trial, the prosecution examined 29 witnesses of which 11 were examined on the aspect of circumstantial evidence and 2 were doctors to establish the factum of rape and murder.	Facts
PW1, the Police Patil who registered the complaint personally, maintained his version as stated in the FIR, dated 02.11.2007, that PW8 was the person who found the body of the deceased and informed the complainant of the same.	Facts
PW12, the brotherinlaw of the deceased, deposed that he was the last person to see the latter alive and that too in the company of the accusedappellants.	Facts
The statement of PW14, that he was the last person to talk to the deceased between 1030 p.m. and 1100 p.m., was supported by documentary evidence, i.e. call records.	Facts
The evidence of PW12, PW13 and PW14, in respect of the whereabouts of the deceased on the fateful night, and with regard to the identity of the accusedappellants was found to be consistent and trustworthy.	Facts
Furthermore, based on the confessional statements of the accusedappellants, the police were able to recover the vehicle, the items stolen from the body of the deceased as well as the Odhani of the deceased, which was found to be one of the tools used to commit murder, i.e. by way of strangulation.	Facts
The Odhani and clothes of the deceased that was recovered, after chemical analysis, was found to contain semen stains of both the accusedappellants.	Facts
Further that, on the basis of the vaginal swab taken during the postmortem examination and the report of the Chemical Analyzer, it has been shown that semen of both the accusedappellants was found in the said swab as well.13.	Facts
The Sessions Court, upon meticulous consideration of the material on record and the submissions made by the parties, observed that the evidence of the prosecution formed a chain so complete that it excluded any hypothesis other than the guilt of the accusedappellants.	Facts
It concluded that the testimonies of PW12, PW13, PW14, PW1 and PW11 are true and reliable and that the same along with the evidence of PW16, the postmortem report and the report of the Chemical Analyzer support the case of the prosecution.	Facts
The Sessions Court has noticed that the evidence of PW12, which states that the deceased was last seen in the company of accusedappellants, coupled with the lack of explanation for the same by the accusedappellants in their statements under Section 313 of the Code, provides a firm link in the chain of circumstances.	Facts
The Sessions Court observed that the accusedappellants have failed miserably in discharging their burden of proving that the deceased was not in their company or that their cab suffered a punctured tyre.	Facts
Further, that the recoveries made at the instance of the accusedappellants, including the vehicle in question, the belongings of the deceased in the respective houses of the accusedappellants, the Odhani of the deceased which was used as a weapon of murder along with the medical evidence and testimony of PW16 establish the factum of commission of the crime by the accusedappellants.	Facts
The subsequent conduct of the accusedappellants, where they continued to pickup PW11 and lied to him about the cause of the delay and the whereabouts of the deceased, has been found to be compatible with their guilt and in consonance with their meticulously chalked out plan for the commission of the offence of gangrape and murder.	Facts
Therefore, in light of the aforesaid, the Sessions Court concluded that the chain of circumstances evince beyond any reasonable doubt that the accusedappellants have committed the heinous offence of rape and murder of the deceased.14.	Facts
With regard to the quantum of sentence, the Sessions Court noticed the wellsettled principles laid down by this Court in Bachan Singh v. State of Punjab, (1980) 2 SCC 684 Macchi Singh and Ors.	Facts
v. State of Punjab, (1983) 3 SCC 470 Dhananjoy Chatterjee v. State of West Bengal, (1994) 2 SCC 220 Devender Pal Singh v. State of NCT of Delhi, (2002) 5 SCC 234 Aqeel Ahmed v. State of UP, (2008) 16 SCC 372 and Atbir Singh v. Govt.	Facts
of NCT of Delhi, (2010)	Facts
9 SCC 1.	Facts
Further, on due consideration to the aggravating and mitigating circumstances present in the facts of the case, the Sessions Court observed that the balance was clearly tilting against the accusedappellants.	Facts
After affording an opportunity of hearing to the accusedappellants on the question of sentence, the Sessions Court has awarded them death sentence and fine of Rs.5,000/ each for the offence punishable under Section 120B of the IPC, death sentence and fine of Rs.5,000/ each for the offence punishable under Section 302 read with Section 120B of the IPC imprisonment for life and fine of Rs.5,000/ for the offence punishable under Section 376(2)(g) read with Section 120B of the IPC imprisonment for life and fine of Rs.5,000/ each for the offence punishable under Section 364 read with Section 120B of the IPC and rigorous imprisonment for two years and a fine of Rs.10,000/ each for the offence punishable under Section 404 read with Section 120B of the IPC.	Facts
The Sessions Court, in its order of sentence, has noticed that the accusedappellants committed and executed the heinous offences in a preplanned and meticulous manner which showed the determination of both the accused to complete the crime and take away the life of the accused.	Facts
The Sessions Court observed that the extreme depravity with which the offences were committed and the merciless manner in which the deceased was raped and done to death, coupled with the gross abuse of the position of trust held by the Accused No.1 and the lack of remorse or repentance for any of their actions, would clearly indicate that the given case was fit to be placed within the category of rarest of rare and the only punishment proportionate to the brutality exhibited by the accusedappellants would be the death penalty.15.	Facts
Aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment and order, the accusedappellants filed an appeal before the High Court which was heard along with the Reference for confirmation of death sentence under Section 366 Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, the Code) and disposed of by a common judgment and order, dated 12.09.2012, 13.09.2012, 24.09.2012 and 25.09.2012.16.	Facts
The High Court has, vide the impugned judgment and order, elaborately dealt with the entire evidence on record and extensively discussed the judgment and order of the Sessions Court in order to ascertain the correctness or otherwise of the conviction and sentence awarded to the accusedappellants.	Facts
The High Court has carefully examined the evidence on record including testimonies of the Prosecution Witnesses and recorded the finding that the said statements do not reflect any discrepancy or inconsistency of facts and therefore must be considered as cogent, reliable and incontrovertible evidence.	Facts
Further, that the medical evidence and the deposition by PW16, i.e. the doctor who conducted the postmortem examination, clearly indicates the commission of the offence of rape and the brutal murder of the deceased.	Facts
The High Court has taken note of the statement of the PW16 that the probable cause of death was shock and hemorrhage due to grievous injury to vital organs with skull fracture involving frontal, left temporal, parietal bone with laceration to brain, fracture to the ribs and right lung rupture with strangulation, and further that the strangulation was committed by overpowering the deceased suddenly from behind.	Facts
On the basis of the medical report as well as the Chemical Analyzers report, the High Court has observed that the factum of commission of the offence of rape by the Accused No.1 and 2 has been conclusively proved.	Facts
The High Court has recorded that the recovery of weapons of murder from the place where the body of the deceased was located as well as from the house of the Accused No.1, the latter being at the instance of a confession by the said accused, has also been established beyond any shadow of doubt.	Facts
In light of the chain of circumstantial evidence having been established beyond any reasonable doubt, the High Court has concluded towards the guilt of accusedappellants and confirmed the judgment of conviction passed by the Sessions Court.17.	Facts
With respect of the quantum of sentence, the High Court has noticed the wellsettled law laid down by this Court and concluded that the present case falls under the category of rarest of rare.	None
The High Court has observed that the heinous acts have been committed by the accusedappellants in a diabolical and coldblooded manner without any hesitation and undeterred by its consequences.	None
Further, that the manner of commission of the offence coupled with their subsequent conduct obliterates any chance of reformation and that there is no guarantee that the accusedappellants would not commit the same or similar offence if they were released.	Facts
Therefore, the High Court confirmed the death sentence awarded by the Sessions Court.18.	Facts
The accusedappellants, aggrieved by the aforesaid confirmation of death sentence awarded to them, are before us in this appeal.	Facts
At the outset, it would be pertinent to note that this Court has issued notice on the limited issue of the sentence, by order dated 04.07.2013.	None
Therefore, the learned counsel would limit her case only to the question of determination of quantum of sentence awarded by the Courts below and seek for commutation of the said sentence.	None
Learned counsel for the accusedappellants would vehemently argue in favour of commutation of the death sentence awarded to the appellants as the case did not fall within the purview of rarest of rare cases.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, she would submit that, in the present case, the mitigating circumstances outweighed the aggravating circumstances, namely that the age of the accusedappellants, the absence of any criminal antecedents and the possibility that they could be reformed and rehabilitated would reflect that a sentence of life imprisonment would suffice the ends of justice.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondentState would seek to support the judgment and order passed by the High Court and Sessions Court.	Arguments of Respondent
We have given our anxious consideration to the arguments advanced by learned counsel for the parties to the appeal and also carefully scrutinized the evidence on record as well as the judgment(s) and order(s) passed by the Courts below.	None
We do not intend to saddle the judgment with the settled position of law in respect of the sentencing policy and the principles evolved by this Court for weighing the aggravating and mitigating factors in specific facts of the case.	None
However, it would be apposite to notice the decision of this Court in the case of Bachan Singh (supra), wherein the constitutional validity of the provisions that authorize the Trial Court to award death sentence for the offence punishable under Section 302 of the IPC and other offences was upheld.	None
However, this Court observed that there can be no strait jacket formula which can be applied in each case and that while considering the sentence to be awarded, the Court must look into the aggravating and mitigating circumstances.	None
The ratio of the decision in Bachan Singh (supra) has been followed in the case of Machhi Singh (supra) wherein this Court held that the manner of commission, motive for commission, antisocial nature of crime, magnitude of crime and personality of victim ought to be kept in mind while awarding an appropriate sentence.	None
It was held that a balance sheet of aggravating and mitigating circumstances has to be drawn up and in doing so, the mitigating circumstances have to be accorded full weightage and a balance has to be struck.	None
It is an established position that law regulates social interests and arbitrates conflicting claims and demands.	Reasoning
Security of persons is a fundamental function of the State which can be achieved through instrumentality of criminal law.	Reasoning
The society today has been infected with a lawlessness that has gravely undermined social order.	Reasoning
Protection of society and stamping out criminal proclivity must be the object of law which may be achieved by imposing appropriate sentence.	Reasoning
Therefore, in this context, the vital function that this Court is required to discharge is to mould the sentencing system to meet this challenge.	Reasoning
The facts and given circumstances in each case, the nature of the crime, the manner in which it was planned and committed, the motive for commission of the crime, the conduct of the accused and all other attending circumstances are relevant facts which would enter into the area of consideration.	Reasoning
Based on the facts of the case, this Court is required to be stern where it should be and tempered with mercy where warranted.	Reasoning
In this context, it would be profitable to notice the manner in which this Court has considered the sentencing policy visvis certain aggravating and mitigating circumstances.	None
In the case of Ramnaresh v. State of Chhattisgarh, (2012) 4 SCC 257 , this Court referred to the Bachan Singh case (supra) and Machhi Singh case (supra) to cull out certain principles governing aggravating and mitigating circumstances.	None
It would be beneficial to refer to the same hereinbelow Aggravating circumstances(1)	None
The offences relating to the commission of heinous crimes like murder, rape, armed dacoity, kidnapping, etc. by the accused with a prior record of conviction for capital felony or offences committed by the person having a substantial history of serious assaults and criminal convictions.(2)	None
The offence was committed while the offender was engaged in the commission of another serious offence.(3)	None
The offence was committed with the intention to create a fear psychosis in the public at large and was committed in a public place by a weapon or device which clearly could be hazardous to the life of more than one person.(4)	None
The offence of murder was committed for ransom or like offences to receive money or monetary benefits.(5)	None
Hired killings.(6)	None
The offence was committed outrageously for want only while involving inhumane treatment and torture to the victim.(7)	None
The offence was committed by a person while in lawful custody.(8)	None
The murder or the offence was committed to prevent a person lawfully carrying out his duty like arrest or custody in a place of lawful confinement of himself or another.	None
For instance, murder is of a person who had acted in lawful discharge of his duty under Section 43 CrPC.(9)	None
When the crime is enormous in proportion like making an attempt of murder of the entire family or members of a particular community.(10) When the victim is innocent, helpless or a person relies upon the trust of relationship and social norms, like a child, helpless woman, a daughter or a niece staying with a father uncle and is inflicted with the crime by such a trusted person.(11)	None
When murder is committed for a motive which evidences total depravity and meanness.(12) When there is a coldblooded murder without provocation.(13)	None
The crime is committed so brutally that it pricks or shocks not only the judicial conscience but even the conscience of the society.	None
Mitigating circumstances(1)	None
The manner and circumstances in and under which the offence was committed, for example, extreme mental or emotional disturbance or extreme provocation in contradistinction to all these situations in normal course.(2) The age of the accused is a relevant consideration but not a determinative factor by itself.(3)	None
The chances of the accused of not indulging in commission of the crime again and the probability of the accused being reformed and rehabilitated.(4)	None
The condition of the accused shows that he was mentally defective and the defect impaired his capacity to appreciate the circumstances of his criminal conduct.(5)	None
The circumstances which, in normal course of life, would render such a behaviour possible and could have the effect of giving rise to mental imbalance in that given situation like persistent harassment or, in fact, leading to such a peak of human behaviour that, in the facts and circumstances of the case, the accused believed that he was morally justified in committing the offence.(6) Where the court upon proper appreciation of evidence is of the view that the crime was not committed in a preordained manner and that the death resulted in the course of commission of another crime and that there was a possibility of it being construed as consequences to the commission of the primary crime.(7) Where it is absolutely unsafe to rely upon the testimony of a sole eyewitness though the prosecution has brought home the guilt of the accused.	None
Further, it has been held by this Court that undue sympathy to impose inadequate sentence would do more harm to the justice system by undermining the public confidence in the efficacy of law See Mahesh v. State of M.P., (1987) 3 SCC 80 Sevaka Perumal v. State of T.N., (1991) 3 SCC 471 and Mofil Khan v. State of Jharkhand, (2015) 1 SCC 67 .	None
To give the lesser punishment for the accused would be to render the judicial system of the country suspect.	None
If the courts do not protect the injured, the injured would then resort to private vengeance.	None
It is, therefore, the duty of every court to award proper sentence having regard to the nature of the offence and the manner in which it was executed or committed etc.	None
In the case of B.A. Umesh v. High Court of Karnataka, (2011) 3 SCC 85 , the appellant was accused of a brutal rape and murder of a lady.	None
It was found, by medical evidence, that the deceased therein was a victim of a violent rape prior to death and the death was caused due to as asphyxiation.	None
Further, the medical report found that the body of the deceased has several abrasions and lacerations.	None
This Court, noticing the brutal and violent manner of commission of the offences confirmed the death sentence to the accused therein.	None
It was held that As has been indicated by the courts below, the antecedents of the appellant and his subsequent conduct indicates that he is a menace to the society and is incapable of rehabilitation.	None
The offences committed by the appellant were neither under duress nor on provocation and an innocent life was snuffed out by him after committing violent rape on the victim.	None
In the Sevaka Perumal case (supra), the counsel for the appellants therein contended that considering the young age of the accused, the same would be a strong mitigating factor in favour of commutation of death sentence.	None
It was contended therein that the accused were the breadwinners of their family which consisted of a young wife, minor child and aged parents.	None
However, this Court, finding no force in the said contention, observed that such compassionate grounds are present in most cases and are not relevant for interference in awarding death sentence.	None
The principle that when the offence is gruesome and was committed in a calculated and diabolical manner, the age of the accused may not be a relevant factor, was further affirmed by a threeJudge Bench of this Court in Mofil Khan case (supra).	None
In view of the aforesaid decisions highlighting the approach of this Court, we would now consider the decision of the Courts below, in the present case.	None
The Sessions Court has noticed a similarity with the present case and the decision of this Court in the case of Dhananjoy Chatterjee (supra).	None
Therefore, in light of the same, the Sessions Court has held that the present case would merit a sentence of death penalty and no less.	None
The Session Court has observed In present case, accused driver alongwith coaccused committed rape and murder of helpless and defenceless young girl who was reposing complete faith and trust on them by carefully planning the crime and executing it in barbaric manner.	None
Taking the verdict in the matter of Dhananjoy Chatterjee (supra) as yardstick, there is no hesitation to put on record that the case at hand is the rarest of rare case warranting nothing else but the death penalty to the accused persons.	None
The High Court, by the impugned judgment and order, has concurred with the findings recorded by the Sessions Court in respect of the chain of circumstances being clearly and incontrovertibly established by the prosecution.	Reasoning
With regard to the balance sheet of aggravating and mitigating circumstances, the High Court has, in addition to the finding and observations of the Sessions Court, held that the aggravating circumstances far outweigh the mitigating circumstances.	Reasoning
Therefore, the High Court has recorded that there is no alternative but to confirm the death sentence as awarded by the Sessions Courts.	Reasoning
At this juncture, it would be pertinent to notice the Dhananjoy Chatterjee case (supra).	None
As noticed above, the said case has been noticed by the Sessions Court, in the present case, as bearing great similarity to the facts herein.	None
In the Dhananjoy Chatterjee case (supra), the accused was convicted for the brutal rape and murder of a young girl aged about 18 years.	None
The accusedtherein was employed as a security guard of the building where the deceased resided and therefore was entrusted with the noble task of ensuring her safety and security.	None
The reasoning therein has been instrumental in moulding the sentencing policy of this Court and therefore it would be gainful to reproduce the relevant paragraphs from the said case below In our opinion, the measure of punishment in a given case must depend upon the atrocity of the crime the conduct of the criminal and the defenceless and unprotected state of the victim.	None
Imposition of appropriate punishment is the manner in which the courts respond to the societys cry for justice against the criminals.	None
Justice demands that courts should impose punishment befitting the crime so that the courts reflect public abhorrence of the crime.	None
The courts must not only keep in view the rights of the criminal but also the rights of the victim of crime and the society at large while considering imposition of appropriate punishment.16.	None
The sordid episode of the security guard, whose sacred duty was to ensure the protection and welfare of the inhabitants of the flats in the apartment, should have subjected the deceased, a resident of one of the flats, to gratify his lust and murder her in retaliation for his transfer on her complaint, makes the crime even more heinous.	None
Keeping in view the medical evidence and the state in which the body of the deceased was found, it is obvious that a most heinous type of barbaric rape and murder was committed on a helpless and defenceless schoolgoing girl of 18 years.	None
If the security guards behave in this manner who will guard the guards?	None
The faith of the society by such a barbaric act of the guard, gets totally shaken and its cry for justice becomes loud and clear.	None
The offence was not only inhuman and barbaric but it was a totally ruthless crime of rape followed by cold blooded murder and an affront to the human dignity of the society.	None
The savage nature of the crime has shocked our judicial conscience.	None
There are no extenuating or mitigating circumstances whatsoever in the case.	None
We agree that a real and abiding concern for the dignity of human life is required to be kept in mind by the courts while considering the confirmation of the sentence of death but a cold blooded preplanned brutal murder, without any provocation, after committing rape on an innocent and defenceless young girl of 18 years, by the security guard certainly makes this case a rarest of the rare cases which calls for no punishment other than the capital punishment and we accordingly confirm the sentence of death imposed upon the appellant for the offence under Section 302 IPC.	None
The order of sentence imposed on the appellant by the courts below for offences under Sections 376 and 380 IPC are also confirmed along with the directions relating thereto as in the event of the execution of the appellant, those sentences would only remain of academic interest.	None
This appeal fails and is hereby dismissed.	None
It would now be necessary for this Court to consider the balance sheet of aggravating and mitigating circumstances.	None
In the instant case, the learned counsel for the accusedappellants has laid stress upon the age of the accused persons, their family background and lack of criminal antecedents.	None
Further, the learned counsel has fervently contended that the accusedappellants are capable of reformation and therefore should be awarded the lighter punishment of life imprisonment.33.	Reasoning
In our considered view, in the facts of the present case, age alone cannot be a paramount consideration as a mitigating circumstance.	Reasoning
Similarly, family background of the accused also could not be said to be a mitigating circumstance.	Reasoning
Insofar as Accused No.1 is concerned, it has been contended that he was happily married and his wife was pregnant at the relevant time.	Reasoning
However, the Accused No.1 did not take into consideration the condition of his wife or his mother while committing the said offence and, as a result, his wife deserted him and his widowed mother is being looked after by his nephew and niece.	Reasoning
Insofar as Accused No.2 is concerned, he has two sisters who are looking after his widowed mother.	Reasoning
Lack of criminal antecedents also cannot be considered as mitigating circumstance, particularly taking into consideration, the nature of heinous offence and cold and calculated manner in which it was committed by the accused persons.34.	Reasoning
In our considered view, the rarest of the rare case exists when an accused would be a menace or, threat to and incompatible with harmony in the society.	None
In a case where the accused does not act on provocation or on the spur of the moment, but meticulously executes a deliberate, coldblooded and preplanned crime, giving scant regard to the consequences of the same, the precarious balance in the sentencing policy evolved by our criminal jurisprudence would tilt heavily towards the death sentence.	Reasoning
This Court is mindful of the settled principle that criminal law requires strict adherence to the rule of proportionality in awarding punishment, and the same must be in accordance with the culpability of the criminal act.	Reasoning
Furthermore, this Court is also conscious to the effect, of not awarding just punishment, on the society.	Reasoning
In the present factual matrix, Accused No.1 abducted the deceased with help of Accused No.2, and subsequently they raped and murdered her.	None
They did not show any regret, sorrow or repentance at any point of time during the commission of the heinous offence, nor thereafter, rather they acted in a disturbingly normal manner after commission of crime.	None
It has been established by strong and cogent evidence that after the commission of the gruesome crime, Accused No.2 accompanied Accused No.1 for the second pick up and exited the cab only prior to reaching the gate of the Company.	None
Further, it has been brought on record that the Accused No.1 attempted to create false record of the whereabouts of the cab and the cause of the delay in arriving at the workplace.	None
In addition, it has been noticed that even though the accusedappellants were seen by PW12, that the deceased repeatedly questioned them of the unusual route, or that the deceased was talking to a friend on the phone during the journey, nothing deterred them from committing the heinous offences.	None
In fact the Sessions Court has noticed that during the commission of the offences, the accusedappellants were contacted by PW11 seeking an explanation for the delay in picking him up, however even this did not deter them.	None
Thus, the manner in which the commission of the offence was so meticulously and carefully planned coupled with the sheer brutality and apathy for humanity in the execution of the offence, in every probability they have potency to commit similar offence in future.	Reasoning
It is clear that both the accused persons have been proved to be a menace to society which strongly negates the probability that they can be reformed or rehabilitated.	Reasoning
In our considered opinion, the mitigating circumstances are wholly absent in the present factual matrix.	Reasoning
This appeal is not a case where the offence was committed by the accused persons under influence of extreme mental or emotional disorder, nor is it a case where the offence may be argued to be a crime of passion or one committed at the spur of the moment.	Reasoning
There is no question of accused persons believing that they were morally justified in committing the offence on helpless and defenceless young woman.	Reasoning
Therefore, in view of the above and keeping the aforesaid principle of proportionality of sentence in mind, this Court is in agreement with the reasoning of the Courts below that the extreme depravity with which the deceased was done to death coupled with the other factors including the position of trust held by the Accused No.1, would tilt the balance between the aggravating and mitigating circumstances greatly against the accusedappellants.	None
The gruesome act of raping a victim who had reposed her trust in the accused followed by a coldblooded and brutal murder of the said victim coupled with the calculated and remorseless conduct of the accused persons after the commission of the offence, we cannot resist from concluding that the depravity of the appellants offence would attract no lesser sentence than the death penalty.	None
In addition to the above, it would be necessary for this Court to notice the impact of the crime on the community and particularly women working in the night shifts at Pune, which is considered as a hub of Information Technology Centre.	None
In recent years, the rising crime rate, particularly violent crimes against women has made the criminal sentencing by the Courts a subject of concern.	None
The sentencing policy adopted by the Courts, in such cases, ought to have a stricter yardstick so as to act as a deterrent.	None
There are a shockingly large number of cases where the sentence of punishment awarded to the accused is not in proportion to the gravity and magnitude of the offence thereby encouraging the criminal and in the ultimate making justice suffer by weakening the systems credibility.	None
The object of sentencing policy should be to see that the crime does not go unpunished and the victim of crime as also the society has the satisfaction that justice has been done to it.	None
In the case of Machhi Singh (supra), this Court observed that the extreme punishment of death would be justified and necessary in cases where the collective conscience of society is so shocked that it will expect the holders of judicial power to inflict death penalty irrespective of their personal opinion.	None
It is true that any case of rape and murder would cause a shock to the society but all such offences may not cause revulsion in society.	Reasoning
Certain offences shock the collective conscience of the court and community.	Reasoning
The heinous offence of gangrape of an innocent and helpless young woman by those in whom she had reposed trust, followed by a coldblooded murder and calculated attempt of coverup is one such instance of a crime which shocks and repulses the collective conscience of the community and the court.	Reasoning
Therefore, in light of the aforesaid settled principle, this Court has no hesitation in holding that this case falls within the category of rarest of rare, which merits death penalty and none else.	Reasoning
The collective conscience of the community is so shocked by this crime that imposing alternate sentence, i.e. a sentence of life imprisonment on the accused persons would not meet the ends of justice.	Reasoning
Rather, it would tempt other potential offenders to commit such crime and get away with the lesser lighter punishment of life imprisonment.	Reasoning
In the result, after having critically appreciated the entire evidence on record as well as the judgments of the Courts below in great detail, we are in agreement with the reasons recorded by the trial court and approved by the High Court while awarding and confirming the death sentence of the accusedappellants.	Decision
In our considered view, the judgment and order passed by the Courts below does not suffer from any error whatsoever.41.	None
Therefore, this appeal is rejected and the sentence of death awarded to the accusedappellants is confirmed.	Decision
The judgment and order passed by the High Court is accordingly affirmed.42.	Decision
The appeal is disposed of in the aforesaid terms.	Decision
Ordered accordingly.	None
