 BANUMATHI, J. Leave granted.	None
This appeal arises out of the judgment dated 17.04.2017 passed by the Delhi High Court in FAO(OS) (COMM) No.85 of 2017 in and by which the Division Bench affirmed the order of the Single Judge dismissing the application filed under Section 8 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (the Act) by holding that the agreements between the parties are not interconnected with the principal agreement dated 05.03.2012 and therefore, the parties cannot be referred to arbitration as per the decision in Sukanya Holdings (P) Ltd. v. Jayesh H. Pandya and another (2003) 5 SCC 531.	Issue
Brief facts which led to filing of this appeal are as follows On 01.02.2012, the first respondent Rishabh Enterprises (the Rishabh), the sole proprietorship concern of the second respondent Dr. A.M. Singhvi entered into two agreements with	Facts
M s Juwi India Renewable Energies Pvt. Ltd.	Facts
(Juwi India) namely (i) Equipment and Material Supply Contract for purchase of power generating equipments to the tune of Rs.8,89,80,730/ and (ii) Engineering, Installation and Commissioning Contract for installation and commissioning of the Solar Plant for Rs.2,20,19,270/. Both these agreements contain arbitration clause.	Facts
The first respondent  Rishabh entered into Sale and Purchase Agreement dated 05.03.2012 with the second appellant company Astonfield Renewables Private Limited (Astonfield) for purchasing CIS Photovoltaic products to be leased to appellant	Facts
No.3 Dante Energy Pvt. Ltd. (Dante Energy) to be installed at the Solar Plant at Dongri, Raksa, District Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh.	Facts
As per the agreement, these products were valued for Rs.25,16,00,000/.	Facts
The second appellant Astonfield received Rs.21,40,49,999/ from the respondents under various cheques issued by the Rishabh.	Facts
This agreement dated 05.03.2012 does not contain the arbitration clause.	Facts
According to the appellants, an amount of Rs.10,00,00,000/ by cash was paid back to the sons of Dr. A.M. Singhvi i.e. Rs.2,50,00,000/ to Mr. Avishkar Singhvi and Rs.7,50,00,000/ to Mr. Anubhav Singhvi.	Facts
An Equipment Lease Agreement (ELA) dated 14.03.2012 was entered into between the Rishabh and Dante Energy whereby Dante Energy agreed to pay the Rishabh Rs.13,50,000/ as lease rent for March, 2012 and from April, 2012 onwards, the said rent payable was Rs.28,26,000/. The Solar Plant at Jhansi has been commissioned and energized on 16.03.2012.	Facts
Gist of the agreements are as under No. DATE OF CONTRACT CONTRACTING PARTY PURPOSE OF CONTRACT ARBITRATION AGREEMENT 1.	None
01.02.2012 Rishabh Enterprises entered into two agreements with M s. Juwi India	Facts
Renewable Energies Pvt. Ltd.	Facts
(i) Rishabh to purchase power generating equipments  Rs.8,89,80,730/ (ii) Engineering, Installation and commission of the plant at Jhansi  Rs.2,20,19,270/	Facts
Both agreements contain arbitration clause  	Facts
Parties agreed that the seat of arbitration shall be at Bombay 2.	Facts
05.03.2012	Facts
Rishabh entered into agreement with M s. Aston Renewables Pvt. Ltd. (appellant no.2) (i) Purchasing CIS Photovoltaic products to be leased to Dante Energy (Appellant no.3) for energizing solar plant installed at Jhansi  	Facts
Rs.21,40,49,999/	Facts
This agreement does not contain arbitration clause.	Facts
3. 14.03.2012	None
Rishabh entered into agreement with M s. Dante Energy Pvt. Ltd. (appellant no.3)	Facts
Dante agreed to pay Rs.13,50,000/ as lease rent for the equipment for March, 2012 and from April, 2012 onwards, Rs.28,26,000/ per month.	Facts
This agreement contains arbitration clause.	Facts
Parties have agreed that the seat of arbitration shall be at Bombay.	Facts
Dispute arose between the parties when respondents alleged that appellant No. 3 Dante Energy has defaulted in payment of rent and that Astonfield committed fraud by inducing the Rishabh to purchase the Photovoltaic products by investing huge amount.	Facts
The respondents have also alleged that the appellants have committed misrepresentation and criminal breach of trust so far as the equipments procured and leased to Dante Energy.	Facts
The respondents have also filed a criminal complaint before the Economic Offences Wing at Delhi against the appellants, based on which, FIR No. 30 of 2015 was registered.	Facts
The appellants have filed writ petition bearing CWP No.619 of 2016 before the High Court of Delhi seeking quashing of the said FIR which is sub judice.	Facts
There was also an enquiry by the Income Tax Authorities seeking explanation from the appellants regarding transfer of money to the sons of Dr. A.M. Singhvi i.e. Rs.2,50,00,000/ to Mr. Avishkar Singhvi and Rs.7,50,00,000/ to Mr. Anubhav Singhvi.	Facts
Appellant No.1 Ameet Lalchand Shah was summoned by the Income Tax Authorities seeking explanation with regard to transfer of the said money to the sons of Dr. A.M. Singhvi.	Facts
Owing to the dispute between the parties, appellant No.3 Dante Energy issued notice dated 13.02.2016 invoking arbitration clause and nominated Justice Sujata Manohar, former Judge, Supreme Court of India as the Arbitrator.	Facts
The respondents namely the Rishabh and its sole proprietor preferred a Civil Suit (Commercial) No.195 of 2016 before the High Court on 11.03.2016 against all the appellants levelling various allegations including fraud and misrepresentation.	Facts
In the suit, multiple reliefs were claimed (i) for a declaration that Sale and Purchase Agreement dated 05.03.2012 Equipment and Material Supply Contract, Engineering, Installation and Commissioning Contract both dated 01.02.2012 and Equipment Lease Agreement dated 14.03.2012 are vitiated by serious fraud committed by the appellants and that the agreements are void (ii) for recovery of a sum of Rs.32,22,80,288/ which the appellants are jointly and severely liable to pay to the respondents (iii) to pay a sum of Rs.19,31,74,804/ as the interest on the aforesaid amount of Rs.32,22,80,288/ at the rate of 18 per annum from the date of the agreement i.e. 01.02.2012 till the date of the realization and (iv) to pay arrears of lease rent.	Facts
On receipt of notice and summons in the suit, the appellants defendants preferred application I.A. No.4158 of 2016 under Section 8 of the Act seeking for reference of the dispute between the parties to arbitration pertaining to all the four agreements.	Facts
The appellants sought for reference to arbitration of all the four agreements by contending that the Sale and Purchase Agreement (05.03.2012) is the main agreement and that other three agreements are interconnected as they are executed between the same parties and the obligations and the performance of the terms of the agreements are interconnected viz.	Facts
commissioning of the Photovoltaic Solar Plant at Dongri, Raksa, District Jhansi, U.P.	Facts
The respondents Rishabh and Dr. A.M. Singhvi resisted the application by contending that the suit is for declaration that the agreements are vitiated due to fraud and misrepresentation and while so, the matter cannot be referred to arbitration.	Facts
It was further averred that the suit is neither concerned about the agreement dated 01.02.2012 with Juwi India nor concerned about Equipment Lease Agreement (14.03.2012) whereas the suit is concerned about the false assurances and fraud played by the appellants Ameet Lalchand Shah and Dante Energy regarding which a criminal case has also been registered and hence, the dispute is not referable to arbitration.	Facts
The learned Single Judge by order dated 15.03.2017 dismissed the application filed under Section 8 of the Act holding that the Equipment Lease Agreement (14.03.2012) between Rishabh and Dante Energy cannot be treated as the mother principal agreement and the agreements between the respondents and Astonfield and Juwi India cannot be said to be ancillary agreements to the same.	Facts
The learned Single Judge further held that not only the respondents accuse the appellants of fraud but appellants also accuse the respondents of fraud, concealment and suppression of material facts and that there was also a registration of a criminal case based on the complaint filed by the respondents and also the enquiry by the Income Tax Authorities regarding transfer of Rs.10,00,00,000/ to the sons of Dr. A.M. Singhvi and when there are such serious issues between the parties, they cannot be referred to arbitration.	Facts
Being aggrieved by the dismissal of the application, the appellants preferred appeal before the Division Bench which came to be dismissed.	Facts
The Division Bench pointed out the difference in the language between Section 8 and Section 45 of the Act and after referring to Chloro Controls India Private Limited v. Severn Trent Water Purification Inc. and others (2013) 1 SCC 641 , observed that Sukanya Holdings was not overruled.	Facts
The Division Bench further pointed out that in spite of amendment brought in under Section 8, since the main principal agreementSale and Purchase Agreement (05.03.2012) does not contain an arbitration clause, the matter cannot be referred to arbitration.	Facts
After referring to A. Ayyasamy v. A. Paramasivam and others (2016) 10 SCC 386 , the Division Bench held that in view of serious allegations of fraud, arbitration of such dispute is excluded.	Facts
We have heard Mr. Shanti Bhushan, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants and Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondents.	None
Upon consideration of the rival submissions, the following points arise for consideration in this appeal Whether all the four agreements viz.	None
Equipment and Material Supply Contract (01.02.2012) between Rishabh and Juwi India (ii) Engineering, Installation and Commissioning Contract (01.02.2012) between Rishabh and Juwi India Sale and Purchase Agreement (05.03.2012) between Rishabh and Astonfield and Equipment Lease Agreement (14.03.2012) between Rishabh and Dante Energy are inter connected to refer the parties to arbitration though there is no arbitration clause in the Sale and Purchase Agreement (05.03.2012) between Rishabh and Astonfield?	Issue
Whether reference of the dispute between the parties to arbitration is to be refused on the ground of allegations of fraud levelled against the appellants by the respondents in the plaint or whether the agreements ought to be taken as commercial undertaking of the partieswith a sense of business efficacy as held in Ayyasamy case?	Issue
First, the Rishabh entered into two agreements with Juwi India dated 01.02.2012 (i) Equipment and Material Supply Contract and (ii) Engineering, Installation and Commissioning Contract.	None
The first agreementEquipment and Material Supply Contract (01.02.2012) contains arbitration clause (Clause 19.4).	None
The second agreement Engineering, Installation and Commissioning Contract (01.02.2012) also contains arbitration clause (Clause 25).	None
Sale and Purchase Agreement (05.03.2012) between Rishabh and Astonfield for Rs.25,16,00,000/ does not contain the arbitration clause.	None
The fourth agreement namely Equipment Lease Agreement (14.03.2012) between Rishabh and Dante Energy contains arbitration clause (Clause 29).	Reasoning
A careful perusal of all the four agreements that is (i) Equipment and Material Supply Contract (ii) Engineering, Installation and Commissioning Contract (iii) Sale and Purchase Agreement and (iv) Equipment Lease Agreement shows that all the four agreements were for the single purpose to commission 2 MWp Photovoltaic Solar Plant at Dongri, Raksa, District Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh to be purchased by Rishabh and leasing the equipments to Dante Energy.	Reasoning
The averments in the plaint also prima facie indicate that all the four agreements are interconnected and that appellant No.1 Ameet Lalchand Shah is stated to be the promoter and controlling man of both Astonfield as well as Dante Energy.	Reasoning
We may usefully refer to the relevant averments in the plaint which read as under Defendant No.1, Mr. Ameet Lalchand Shah, is the Promoter of the Defendant Nos. 2 and 3 Companies.	None
Through his other group companies, Defendant No.1 is also the controlling shareholder of Defendant Nos. 2 and 3.	None
He is involved in running the day to day affairs of the said companies and it is on his instructions and directions and under his overall control and dictation that the said companies are run.	None
He is the cofounder and the cochairman of theAstonfield Group of various companies incorporated both outside of and in India (www.astonfield.com).	None
Defendant No.1 is the main brain behind the serious fraud that has been perpetuated upon the Plaintiffs and the prima donna, mind, body, soul and controlling entity of all other defendants to this suit.	None
If the corporate veil is lifted by this Honble Court (and, this is an appropriate case for lifting of the corporate veil), it will be found that it is, in fact, Defendant No.1 only who is the real entity behind all the other defendants and it is on his directions that the others have made, played their respective roles in and or participated in the transactions in question.	None
Further, Defendant No.1 has also been corresponding with the plaintiffs on behalf of Defendant Nos. 2 and 3.	None
The said Defendant No.1 is also responsible for running the day to day affairs of this Company which is run on his directions and under his control.	None
Defendant No.2 entered into a Sale and Purchase Agreement with the Plaintiffs, the transaction under which is vitiated by serious fraud.	None
Though there are two agreements, individual parties to the Sale and Purchase Agreement (05.03.2012) and the Equipment Lease Agreement (Dante Energy) are one and the same,.	None
Though Juwi India is not the defendant, as discussed infra, Equipment and Material Supply Contract and Engineering, Installation and Commissioning Contract with Juwi India itself were for the purpose of commissioning Photovoltaic Solar Plant at Dongri, Raksa, District Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh.	Reasoning
The clauses in the Equipment and Material Supply Contract (01.02.2012) between Rishabh and Juwi India clearly indicate that the Rishabh has entered into Lease Agreement with Dante Energy and that the Rishabh proposes to source Photovoltaic products panels etc. and similar Solar Power generating equipments for onward lease of those goods to Dante Energy.	Reasoning
The following clauses in the said Equipment and Material Supply Contract would clearly establish the link of Equipment and Material Supply Contract with the main Lease Agreement with Dante Energy This Equipment and Material Supply contract is between M s Rishabh Enterprises (the Client) AND Juwi India Renewable Energies Private Limited (the Supplier)	Reasoning
Whereas A. The Client (Rishabh) is entering into Lease Agreement with M s Dante Energy Pvt. Ltd. (Lessee) and the Lessee (Dante Energy) has necessary authorizations to develop, own, operate and commercially exploit a 2 MWp thinfilm photovoltaic solar plant at Dongri, Raksa, DistrictJhansi, UP (Plant Site), transmission line from power plant to the Grid Substation, bay extension work at the Grid Substation, including all of the infrastructure and relevant installations required to connect the electricity producing equipment to the distribution transmission grid at the Grid Substation in UP, India (the Facility).	Reasoning
B. The Client (Rishabh) proposes to source Photovoltaic Products Panels, Inverters, Transformers and similar solar power generating equipments, etc. for sale of goods to the Client (Rishabh) and the Client (Rishabh) will onward lease these goods to M s Dante Energy Pvt. Ltd. (Lessee).	Reasoning
C. The Client (Rishabh) wishes to engage the Supplier (Juwi India) for supply of Equipment (as defined below) and materials with respect to the development of the Solar Park.	Reasoning
D. The M s Dante Energy Private Limited (Lessee) will have the right to inspect the respective goods to be sourced by the Client (Rishabh) and based on the confirmation from the M s Dante Energy Private Limited (Lessee), the respective goods will be purchased by the Client (Rishabh) for onward sale to M s Dante Energy Private Limited (Lessee) and will be consigned to the project site.	Reasoning
E. The Supplier (Juwi India) is aggregable to supply the Equipment and Materials to the Client (Rishabh) in accordance with the terms of this Contract.	Reasoning
Likewise, clauses in the agreement for Engineering, Installation and Commissioning Contract between Rishabh and Juwi India (01.02.2012) also clearly indicate that the agreement was entered into for the purpose of commissioning Photovoltaic Solar Plant at Dongri, Raksa, District Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh.	Reasoning
Clause (A) of the agreement that the Rishabh has entered into Equipment Lease Agreement with M s Dante Energy (Lessee) reiterates that the second agreement with Juwi India for engineering, installation and commissioning is integrally connected with Equipment Lease Agreement (14.03.2012).	Reasoning
The relevant clauses in the agreement read as under This Engineering, Installation and Commissioning Contract Agreement is between M s Rishabh Enterprises (the Client) AND Juwi India Renewable Energies Pvt.	None
Ltd(the Contractor)	None
Whereas The Client (Rishabh) is the owner of certain Photovoltaic products Panels, Inverters, Transformers and similar solar power generating equipments etc. and is entering into an Equipment Lease Agreement with M s Dante Energy Pvt. Ltd. (Lessee).	Reasoning
The Lessee (Dante Energy) has necessary authorizations to develop, own, operate and commercially exploit a 2 MWp thinfilm photovoltaic solar plant at Dongri, Raksa, DistrictJhansi, UP (Plant Site), transmission line from power plant to the Grid Substation, bay extension work at the Grid Substation, including all of the infrastructure and relevant installations required to connect the electricity producing equipment to the distribution transmission grid at the Grid Substation in UP, India (the Facility).	Reasoning
The Client (Rishabh) proposes to purchase the Clients Equipment as required by the Lessee (Dante Energy) for onward lease to the Lessee (Dante Energy).	None
The Lessee (Dante Energy) requires the services for design, engineering, construction, erection, testing, commissioning and handing over of the Facility to the Client (Rishabh) and accordingly the Client (Rishabh) has agreed to identity the competent Contractor (Juwi India) for undertaking the above work.	None
The Contractor (Juwi India) has represented to the Client (Rishabh) and the Lessee (Dante Energy) that the Contractor (Juwi India) has the requisite experience, expertise, resources and skills for undertaking and performing all the activities and services required for design engineering, construction, erection, testing, commissioning and handing over of the Facility and has submitted an offer to the Client (Rishabh) in response to the Technical Specifications as set out by the Client (Rishabh).	None
Based on the offer submitted by the Contractor (Juwi India) and relying on the Contractors representations and warranties herein, and on the concurrence and approval of the Lessee (Dante Energy), the Client (Rishabh) wishes to appoint the Contractor (Juwi India) to undertake the Services and (except for purchase of the Clients Equipments) to perform all the activities and services required for design, engineering, construction, erecting, testing, commissioning and handing over of the Facility and the Contractor (Juwi India) has agreed to such appointment and to undertake such other duties and obligations as mentioned in this Contract.	None
The above clauses in the very commencement of the agreement with Juwi India dated 01.02.2012 clearly state that the agreement itself was for the purpose of commissioning Photovoltaic Solar Plant at Dongri, Raksa, District Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh for which Dante Energy (Lessee) has necessary authorizations.	Reasoning
The above quoted clauses in the Engineering, Installation and Commissioning Contract (01.02.2012) establish that this agreement is interconnected with Equipment Lease Agreement (14.03.2012) with Dante Energy.	Reasoning
Equally, the Sale and Purchase Agreement (05.03.2012) between M s Astonfield and Rishabh is also for the purpose of onward leasing of goods to Dante Energy as seen from the following clauses Sale and Purchase Agreement Astonfiled	Reasoning
Renewable Pvt. Ltd.	Facts
(Seller) AND Rishabh Enterprises (Buyer) agree to sell and to purchase the following products, which are required for onwards leasing of goods by the Buyer (Rishabh) to Dante Energy Private Limited.	None
(Lessee) under the terms and conditions stated below (Transaction), effective as of the date of last signature below (Effective Date)	None
BuyerRishabh Enterprises Seller Astonfield Renewables Private Limited Transaction	None
The parties agree that this Transaction shall be governed by this Sale and Purchase Agreement and its apendices.	None
The products under this Agreement shall be used for the 2 MWp grid connected solar PV power project being set up by the Lessee (Dante Energy) at Dongri, Raksa, DistrictJhansi, Uttar Pradesh (Plant Site) The Buyer (Rishabh) is purchasing the above goods for onward supply lease to lessee (Dante Energy).	None
Lessee (Dante Energy) will have the right to inspect the respective goods and based on the confirmation from the Lessee (Dante Energy), the respective goods will be purchased by the Buyer (Rishabh) for onward sale to Lessee (Dante Energy) and will be consigned to the Project Site.	Reasoning
Though the Sale and Purchase Agreement (05.03.2012) does not have any arbitration clause, by the above clauses, it is clearly linked with the main agreement  Equipment Lease Agreement (14.03.2012).	None
Sale and Purchase Agreement was entered into between Astonfield and Rishabh only for the purpose of onward transmission of leasing of the goods by Rishabh to Dante Energy.	Reasoning
There is no merit in the contention that the Sale and Purchase Agreement is not connected with the Equipment Lease Agreement with Dante Energy.	Reasoning
Equipment Lease Agreement (14.03.2012) between Rishabh and Dante Energy is only a followup of all the above three agreements as is clear from the various clauses in the Equipment Lease Agreement.	Reasoning
The relevant clauses of Equipment Lease Agreement (14.03.2012) are as under Equipment Lease Agreement M s Rishabh Enterprises.	None
(Lessor) AND M s Dante Energy Pvt. Ltd (Lessee) is setting up a 2 MWp grid connected solar PV power project at Dongri, Raksa, District Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh (Plant Site)	None
Whereas the Lessor (Rishabh) is the owner of certain Photovoltaic products Panels, Inverters, Transformers and similar solar power generating equipments etc.	None
(herein referred to asEquipments), more particularly described in the First Schedule hereunder written.	None
And whereas the Lessee (Dante Energy) has necessary authorizations to develop, own, operate and commercially exploit a 2 MWp thinfilm photovoltaic solar plant on the Site (SPY Power Plant), transmission line from power plant to the Grid Substation, bay extension work at the Grid Substation, including all of the infrastructure and relevant installations required to connect the electricityproducing equipment to the distribution transmission grid at the Grid Substation in Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh, India as specified in the Second Schedule (Facility) and for this purpose, they are in requirement of the Equipments as mentioned in the First Schedule hereunder written.	None
And whereas the Lessee (Dante Energy) being desirous of obtaining from the Lessor (Rishabh) on lease the specified nature of Equipments more particularly described in the First Schedule hereunder written, has approached the Lessor (Rishabh) and has requested the Lessor (Rishabh) to lease out the Equipments to the Lessee (Dante Energy) on the terms, covenants and conditions herein contained specified.	None
Article 4 Delivery, Commencement and disbursement	None
It is expressly understood by the Lessee (Dante Energy) and Lessor (Rishabh) that in the present case, the respective Equipments are being sourced from the supplier of Solar Photovoltaic Modularlocated in the State of Maharashtra i.e. Astonfield Renewables Private Limited and supplier of other solar power generating equipments like inverters, transformers, etc. in the State of Karnataka i.e. Juwi India Renewable Energies Private Limited.	None
These goods have been inspected by the Lessee (Dante Energy) and are found suitable for its commercial use of the same.	None
Pursuant to this lease agreement, the respective Equipments, will be purchased by the Lessor (Rishabh) from the respective Supplier and accordingly, the Equipments will be consigned directly to the project site in the State of Uttar Pradesh.	None
Accordingly, in the present case, the delivery of respective Equipments will be effected by Endorsement of the consignment Note in the favour of Lessee (Dante Energy) by the Lessor (Rishabh).	None
Irrespective of how and by whom the delivery is effected, it is hereby agreed that the entire risk, cost or any outgoing pertaining to the said delivery and installation shall be at the cost and risk of the Lessor (Rishabh).	Reasoning
The above extracted clauses clearly demonstrate that all the four agreements are interconnected.	Reasoning
Clause (v) in Article 4 in the Equipment Lease Agreement that delivery and installation shall be at the cost and risk of Rishabh (Lessor) is clearly linked with the Engineering, Installation and Commissioning Contract between Rishabh and Juwi India.	Reasoning
The High Court placed reliance upon Sukanya Holdings for dismissal of the application filed under Section 8 of the Act.	None
In Sukanya Holdings, the suit was filed for dissolution of the partnership firm and accounts and inter alia challenged the conveyance deed executed by the partnership firm in favour of M s West End Gymkhana Limited.	None
An application filed under Section 8 of the Act was opposed by respondent No.1 thereon by contending that the subject matter of the suit was not between the contracting parties and that the reliefs claimed are not only against respondents No. 1 and 2 who are the contracting parties but are claimed against the remaining twentythree parties who are the purchasers tenants of disputed flats.	None
This Court held that if all the parties to the suit are not parties to the agreement then the matter cannot be referred to arbitration since there is no provision in the Act for partly referring the dispute to arbitration.	None
This Court noted that the buyers were not parties to the arbitration agreement and that the nonsignatories cannot be referred to arbitration.	None
In Sukanya Holdings in paras (15) and (16), this Court held as under The relevant language used in Section 8 isin a matter which is the subject of an arbitration agreement.	None
The court is required to refer the parties to arbitration.	None
Therefore, the suit should be in respect ofa matterwhich the parties have agreed to refer and which comes within the ambit of arbitration agreement.	None
Where, however, a suit is commenced as to a matterwhich lies outside the arbitration agreement and is also between some of the parties who are not parties to the arbitration agreement, there is no question of application of Section 8.	None
The wordsa matterindicate that the entire subjectmatter of the suit should be subject to arbitration agreement.	None
The next question which requires consideration is even if there is no provision for partly referring the dispute to arbitration, whether such a course is possible under Section 8 of the Act.	None
In our view, it would be difficult to give an interpretation to Section 8 under which bifurcation of the cause of action, that is to say, the subject matter of the suit or in some cases bifurcation of the suit between parties who are parties to the arbitration agreement and others is possible.	None
This would be laying down a totally new procedure not contemplated under the Act.	None
If bifurcation of the subjectmatter of a suit was contemplated, the legislature would have used appropriate language to permit such a course.	None
Since there is no such indication in the language, it follows that bifurcation of the subjectmatter of an action brought before a judicial authority is not allowed.	None
Mr. Sibal, learned senior counsel for the respondents submitted that the High Court rightly relied upon Sukanya Holdings as it relates to PartI of the Act that the parties who are not signatories to the arbitration agreement (in this case, Astonfield under Sale and Purchase Agreement) cannot be referred to arbitration.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further submitted that Chloro Controls arises under PartII of the Act and was rightly distinguished by the High Court and Sukanya Holdings was not overruled by Chloro Controls and hence, the appellants cannot rely upon Chloro Controls.	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended that the Sale and Purchase Agreement (05.03.2012) under which huge money was parted with, is the main agreement having no arbitration clause cannot be referred to arbitration.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that the subject matter of the suit cannot be bifurcated between the parties to arbitration agreement and others.	Arguments of Respondent
20.	None
In Chloro Controls, this Court was dealing with the scope and interpretation of Section 45 of the Act  PartII of the Act and in that context, discussed the scope of relevant principles on the basis of which a nonsignatory party also could be bound by the arbitration agreement.	None
Under Section 45 of the Act, an applicant seeking reference of disputes to arbitration can either be a party to the arbitration agreement or any person claiming through or under such party.	None
Section 45 uses the expression.at the request of one of the parties or any person claiming through or under himincludes nonsignatory parties who can be referred to arbitration provided they satisfy the requirements of Sections 44 and 45 read with Schedule I of the Act.	None
In para (73) of Chloro Controls, this Court held as under A nonsignatory or third party could be subjected to arbitration without their prior consent, but this would only be in exceptional cases.	None
The court will examine these exceptions from the touchstone of direct relationship to the party signatory to the arbitration agreement, direct commonality of the subjectmatter and the agreement between the parties being a composite transaction.	None
The transaction should be of a composite nature where performance of the mother agreement may not be feasible without aid, execution and performance of the supplementary or ancillary agreements, for achieving the common object and collectively having bearing on the dispute.	None
Besides all this, the court would have to examine whether a composite reference of such parties would serve the ends of justice.	None
Once this exercise is completed and the court answers the same in the affirmative, the reference of even nonsignatory parties would fall within the exception aforediscussed.	None
(Underlining added)	None
In a case like the present one, though there are different agreements involving several parties, as discussed above, it is a single commercial project namely operating a 2 MWp Photovoltaic Solar Plant at Dongri, Raksa, District Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh.	Reasoning
Commissioning of the Solar Plant, which is the commercial understanding between the parties and it has been effected through several agreements.	Reasoning
The agreement Equipment Lease Agreement (14.03.2012) for commissioning of the Solar Plant is the principal main agreement.	Reasoning
The two agreements of Rishabh with Juwi India (i) Equipment and Material Supply Contract (01.02.2012) and (ii) Engineering, Installation and Commissioning Contract (01.02.2012) and the Rishabhs Sale and Purchase Agreement with Astonfield (05.03.2012) are ancillary agreements which led to the main purpose of commissioning the Photovoltaic Solar Plant at Dongri, Raksa, District Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh by Dante Energy (Lessee).	Reasoning
Even though, the Sale and Purchase Agreement (05.03.2012) between Rishabh and Astonfield does not contain arbitration clause, it is integrally connected with the commissioning of the Solar Plant at Dongri, Raksa, District Jhansi, U.P. by Dante Energy.	Reasoning
Juwi India, even though, not a party to the suit and even though, Astonfield and appellant No.1 Ameet Lalchand Shah are not signatories to the main agreement viz.	Reasoning
Equipment Lease Agreement (14.03.2012), it is a commercial transaction integrally connected with commissioning of Photovoltaic Solar Plant at Dongri, Raksa, District Jhansi, U.P .	Reasoning
Be it noted, as per clause(v) of Article 4, parties have agreed that the entire risk, cost of the delivery and installation shall be at the cost of the Rishabh (Lessor).	Reasoning
Here again, we may recapitulate that engineering and installation is to be done by Juwi India.	Reasoning
What is evident from the facts and intention of the parties is to facilitate procurement of equipments, sale and purchase of equipments, installation and leasing out the equipments to Dante Energy.	Reasoning
The dispute between the parties to various agreements could be resolved only by referring all the four agreements and the parties thereon to arbitration.	Reasoning
Parties to the agreements namely Rishabh and Juwi India (i) Equipment and Material Supply Agreement and (ii) Engineering, Installation and Commissioning Contract and the parties to Sale and Purchase Agreement between Rishabh and Astonfield are one and the same as that of the parties in the main agreement namely Equipment Lease Agreement (14.03.2012).	Reasoning
All the four agreements are inter connected.	Reasoning
This is a case where several parties are involved in a single commercial project (Solar Plant at Dongri) executed through several agreements contracts.	Reasoning
In such a case, all the parties can be covered by the arbitration clause in the main agreement i.e. Equipment Lease Agreement (14.03.2012).	Reasoning
Since all the three agreements of Rishabh with Juwi India and Astonfield had the purpose of commissioning the Photovoltaic Solar Plant project at Dongri, Raksa, District Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh, the High Court was not right in saying that the Sale and Purchase Agreement (05.03.2012) is the main agreement.	Reasoning
The High Court, in our view, erred in not keeping in view the various clauses in all the three agreements which make them as an integral part of the principal agreement namely Equipment Lease Agreement (14.03.2012) and the impugned order of the High Court cannot be sustained.	Reasoning
Amendment to Section 8 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 has brought in amendment to Section 8 to make it in line with Section 45 of the Act.	Reasoning
In view of the observation made in Sukanya Holdings, Law Commission has made recommendation for amendment to Section 8 of the Act.	None
Consequent to 2015 Amendment Act, Section 8 is amended as under Power to refer parties to arbitration where there is an arbitration agreement.  	Reasoning
A judicial authority before which an action is brought in a matter which is the subject of an arbitration agreement shall, if a party to the arbitration agreement or any person claiming through or under him, so applies not later than when the date of submitting his first statement on the substance of the dispute, then, notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of the Supreme Court or any court refer the parties to arbitration unless it finds that prima facie no valid arbitration agreement exists.	None
The application referred to in subsection (1) shall not be entertained unless it is accompanied by the original arbitration agreement or a duly certified copy thereof Provided that where the original arbitration agreement or a certified copy thereof is not available with the party applying for reference to arbitration under subsection (1), and the said agreement or certified copy is retained by the other party to that agreement, then, the party so applying shall file such application along with a copy of the arbitration agreement and a petition praying the Court to call upon the other party to produce the original arbitration agreement or its duly certified copy before that Court.	None
Notwithstanding that an application has been made under subsection (1) and that the issue is pending before the judicial authority, an arbitration may be commenced or continued and an arbitral award made.	None
Principally four amendments to Section 8(1) have been introduced by the 2015 Amendments  (i) the relevant party that is entitled to apply seeking reference to arbitration has been clarified amplified to include persons claiming through or under such a party to the arbitration agreement (ii) scope of examination by the judicial authority is restricted to a finding whether no valid arbitration agreement exists and the nature of examination by the judicial authority is clarified to be on a prima facie basis (iii) the cutoff date by which an application under Section 8 is to be presented has been defined to mean the date of submitting the first statement on the substance of the dispute and (iv) the amendments are expressed to apply notwithstanding any prior judicial precedent.	Reasoning
The proviso to Section 8(2) has been added to allow a party that does not possess the original or certified copy of the arbitration agreement on account of it being retained by the other party, to nevertheless apply under Section 8 seeking reference, and call upon the other party to produce the same.	Reasoning
(Ref Justice R.S. Bachawats Law of Arbitration and Conciliation, Sixth Edition, Vol.	None
I (Sections 1 to 34) at page 695 published by LexisNexis).	Reasoning
Amendment to Section 8 by the Act, 2015 are to be seen in the background of the recommendations set out in the 246 th Law Commission Report.	None
In its 246 th Report, Law Commission, while recommending the amendment to Section 8, made the following observation comment LC Comment The wordssuch of the parties.	None
to the arbitration agreementand proviso (i) of the amendment have been proposed in the context of the decision of the Supreme Court in Sukanya Holdings Pvt.	None
Ltd. v. Jayesh H. Pandya and Anr.	None
(2003) 5 SCC 531 ,  in cases where all the parties to the dispute are not parties to the arbitration agreement, the reference is to be rejected only where such parties are necessary parties to the action and not if they are only proper parties, or are otherwise legal strangers to the action and have been added only to circumvent the arbitration agreement.	None
Proviso (ii) of the amendment contemplates a twostep process to be adopted by a judicial authority when considering an application seeking the reference of a pending action to arbitration.	None
The amendment envisages that the judicial authority shall not refer the parties to arbitration only if it finds that there does not exist an arbitration agreement or that it is null and void.	None
If the judicial authority is of the opinion that prima facie the arbitration agreement exists, then it shall refer the dispute to arbitration, and leave the existence of the arbitration agreement to be finally determined by the arbitral tribunal.	None
However, if the judicial authority concludes that the agreement does not exist, then the conclusion will be final and not prima facie.	None
The amendment also envisages that there shall be a conclusive determination as to whether the arbitration agreement is null and void.	None
The application referred to in subsection (1) shall not be entertained unless it is accompanied by the original arbitration agreement or a duly certified copy thereof or a copy accompanied by an affidavit calling upon the other party to produce the original arbitration agreement or duly certified thereof in circumstances where the original arbitration agreement or duly certified copy is retained only by the other party.	None
LC Comment In many transactions involving Government bodies and smaller market players, the original duly certified copy of the arbitration agreement is only retained by the former.	None
This amendment would ensure that the latter class is not prejudiced in any manner by virtue of the same (Ref 246 th Law Commission Report, Government of India)	None
The language of amendment to Section 8 of the Act is clear that the amendment to Section 8(1) of the Act would apply notwithstanding any prayer, judgment, decree or order of the Supreme Court or any other Court.	Reasoning
The High Court laid emphasis upon the word unless it finds that primafacie no valid agreement exists.	None
The High Court observed that there is no arbitration agreement between Astonfield and Rishabh.	None
After referring to Sukanya Holdings and the amended Section 8 and Section 45 of the Act, the High Court pointed out the difference in language of Section 8 and Section 45 of the Act.	None
The High Court distinguished between Sukanya Holdings and Chloro Controls, and observed that Sukanya Holdings was not overruled by Chloro Controls.	None
In para (23) of the impugned judgment, it was held as under 23.	None
The change in Section 8 is that the Court is to  in cases where arbitration agreements are relied on to refer the disputes in the suit, to arbitration, notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of the Supreme Court or any Court, refer the parties to arbitration unless it finds that prima facie no valid arbitration agreement exists.	None
The Court is of opinion that Sukanya is not per se overruled, because the exercise of whether an arbitration agreement exists between the parties, in relation to the disputes that are the subject matter of the suit, has to be carried out.	None
If there are causes of action that cannot be subjected to arbitration, or the suit involves adjudication of the role played by parties who are not signatories to the arbitration agreement, it has to continue because prima facie no valid arbitration agreement exists between such non parties and others, who are parties.	None
Re contention allegations of fraud disable an arbitration Yet another ground based on which the High Court declined to refer the parties to arbitration is the allegations of fraud levelled by respondents plaintiffs in their plaint against Astonfield and appellant no.1.	Issue
The High Court held that the respondents levelled allegations of fraud against the appellants which raise serious triable issues of fraud and hence, the matter cannot be referred to arbitration.	None
According to the respondents, it is not a case wherefraud is alleged merely to disable an arbitration.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Sibal, learned senior counsel for respondents contended that the plaint is based on the averments that from inception, the intention of appellants defendants was to cheat the respondents and the respondents were made to part with large sums of money on the basis of the misrepresentation made by the appellants.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that alternative prayer in the plaint will not convert the fraud suit to a regulatory suit because of alternative prayer since alternative prayer lease rental has been projected only as an alternative remedy.	Arguments of Respondent
Placing reliance upon Arundhati Mishra (Smt) v. Sri Ram Charitra Pandey (1994) 2 SCC 29 , it was submitted that it is settled law that it is open to the parties to raise mutually inconsistent pleas and the relief could be granted on the alternative plea so raised.	Arguments of Respondent
Refuting the above contentions, Mr. Shanti Bhushan, learned senior counsel for the appellants placed reliance upon Ayyasamy case to contend that there are no serious allegations in the plaint to decline reference of the matter to arbitration.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that mere allegations of fraud were not sufficient to detract from the performance of the obligation of the parties in terms of the agreement and refer the matter to arbitration.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under the Act, an arbitration agreement means an agreement which is enforceable in law and the jurisdiction of the arbitrator is on the basis of an arbitration clause contained in the arbitration agreement.	Reasoning
However, in a case where the parties alleged that the arbitration agreement is vitiated on account of fraud, the Court may refuse to refer the parties to arbitration.	Reasoning
In Ayyasamy case, this Court held that mere allegation of fraud is not a ground to nullify the effect of arbitration agreement between the parties and arbitration clause need not be avoided and parties can be relegated to arbitration where merely simple allegations of fraud touched upon internal affairs of parties is levelled.	Reasoning
Justice A.K. Sikri observed that it is only in those cases where the Court finds that there are serious allegations of fraud which make a virtual case of criminal offence and where there are complicated allegations of fraud then it becomes necessary that such complex issues can be decided only by the civil court on the appreciation of evidence that needs to be produced.	Reasoning
In para (25) of Ayyasamy case, Justice Sikri held as under 25Therefore, the inquiry of the Court, while dealing with an application under Section 8 of the Act, should be on the aforesaid aspect viz.	Reasoning
whether the nature of dispute is such that it cannot be referred to arbitration, even if there is an arbitration agreement between the parties.	Reasoning
When the case of fraud is set up by one of the parties and on that basis that party wants to wriggle out of that arbitration agreement, a strict and meticulous inquiry into the allegations of fraud is needed and only when the Court is satisfied that the allegations are of serious and complicated nature that it would be more appropriate for the Court to deal with the subject matter rather than relegating the parties to arbitration, then alone such an application under Section 8 should be rejected.	Reasoning
While concurring with Justice Sikri, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud pointed out that the duty of the Court is to impartsense of business efficacy to the commercial transactions pointing out that mere allegations of fraud were not sufficient to decline to refer the parties to arbitration.	Reasoning
In para (48) of Ayyasamy case, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud held as under The basic principle which must guide judicial decision making is that arbitration is essentially a voluntary assumption of an obligation by contracting parties to resolve their disputes through a private tribunal.	Reasoning
The intent of the parties is expressed in the terms of their agreement.	Reasoning
Where commercial entities and persons of business enter into such dealings, they do so with a knowledge of the efficacy of the arbitral process.	Reasoning
The commercial understanding is reflected in the terms of the agreement between the parties.	Reasoning
The duty of the court is to impart to that commercial understanding a sense of business efficacy.	Reasoning
(Underlining added) When we apply the aforesaid principles to the facts of the present case, as discussed earlier, both parties have consciously proceeded with the commercial transactions to commission the Photovoltaic Solar Plant at Dongri, Raksa, District Jhansi,	Reasoning
U.P.	None
The first respondent has proceeded to procure the materials, entered into agreement with Juwi India for engineering, installation and commissioning and the sale and purchase agreement with Astonfield, were all the conscious steps taken in the commercial understanding to commission the Solar Plant at Dongri, Raksa, District Jhansi, U.P.	Reasoning
Even though Juwi India and Astonfield are not parties to the main agreement  Equipment Lease Agreement (14.03.2012), all the agreements contracts contain clauses referring to the main agreement.	Reasoning
It is the duty of the Court to impart the commercial understanding with asense of business efficacyand not by the mere averments made in the plaint.	Reasoning
The High Court was not right in refusing to refer the parties on the ground of the allegations of fraud levelled in the plaint.	Reasoning
It is only where serious questions of fraud are involved, the arbitration can be refused.	Reasoning
In this case, as contended by the appellants there were no serious allegations of fraud the allegations levelled against Astonfield is that appellant no.1  Ameet Lalchand Shah misrepresented by inducing the respondents to pay higher price for the purchase of the equipments.	Reasoning
There is, of course, a criminal case registered against the appellants in FIR No.30 of 2015 dated 05.03.2015 before the Economic Offences Wing, Delhi.	Reasoning
The appellant no.1 Ameet Lalchand Shah has filed Criminal Writ Petition No.619 of 2016 before the High Court of Delhi for quashing the said FIR.	Reasoning
The said writ petition is stated to be pending and therefore, we do not propose to express any views in this regard, lest, it would prejudice the parties.	Reasoning
Suffice to say that the allegations cannot be said to be so serious to refuse to refer the parties to arbitration.	Reasoning
In any event, the Arbitrator appointed can very well examine the allegations regarding fraud.	Reasoning
Main agreement  Equipment Lease Agreement (14.03.2012) for leasing and commissioning of Solar Plant at Dongri, Raksa, District Jhansi	Reasoning
, Uttar Pradesh contains arbitration clause (Clause 29).	Reasoning
As discussed earlier, other three agreements  two agreements between Rishabh and Juwi India (01.02.2012) and Sale and Purchase Agreement (05.03.2012) between Rishabh and Astonfield are integrally connected with the commercial understanding of commissioning the Solar Project at Dongri, Raksa, District Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh and to resolve the dispute between the parties, they are to be referred to arbitration.	Reasoning
The order of the High Court declining to refer the parties to arbitration cannot be sustained and is liable to be set aside.	Reasoning
The four agreements namely (i) Equipment and Material Supply Contract (01.02.2012) between Rishabh and Juwi India (ii) Engineering, Installation and Commissioning Contract (01.02.2012) between Rishabh and Juwi India (iii) Sale and Purchase Agreement (05.03.2012) between Rishabh and Astonfield and (iv) Equipment Lease Agreement (14.03.2012) between Rishabh and Dante Energy and the parties thereon are referred to arbitration.	Reasoning
As per the terms of Equipment Lease Agreement (14.03.2012), appellant No.3  Dante Energy has to pay lease rentals of Rs.13,67,500/ for the month of March, 2012 and with effect from April, 2012 to pay lease rentals of Rs.28,26,000/ per month for a period of fifteen years.	Reasoning
Learned Senior Counsel for respondents, Mr. Sibal has submitted that appellant No.3  Dante Energy has not paid the rentals as per the terms and conditions of Equipment Lease Agreement.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Sibal has also drawn our attention that Astonfield Solar Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. has transferred 99.99 of its shares to ARRL (Mauritius) Ltd. (Holding Company) and Ameet Lalchand Shah has only one share (0.01).	Arguments of Respondent
Our attention was also drawn to Astonfield Solar Gujarat Pvt. Ltd., which has also transferred 99.99 of its shares to ARRL (Mauritius) Ltd. (Holding Company) and that Ameet Lalchand Shah has only one share (0.01).	Arguments of Respondent
It was also submitted that the appellant No.1  Ameet Lalchand Shah was subsequently removed from the Board of Directors of Astonfield Solar Gujarat Pvt.	Arguments of Respondent
Ltd. by the shareholders by EGM dated 17.12.2016.	Arguments of Respondent
We do not propose to go into the merits of this contention however, keeping in view that Astonfield has transferred its shareholdings qua Rajasthan and Gujarat Solar Power units, in our view, the interest of the respondents is to be protected till the matter is resolved by the arbitrator by directing the appellants to pay the arrears of lease rent and also to pay the future lease rent for the equipments at the rate of Rs.28,26,000/ per month.	Reasoning
The impugned order of the High Court is set aside and this appeal is allowed.	Decision
All the aforesaid four agreements and the parties thereon are referred to arbitration.	Decision
By notice dated 13.02.2016, appellants have nominated Justice Sujata Manohar, former Judge of the Supreme Court of India as their Arbitrator.	Decision
We leave it open to the parties as to the choice of the Arbitrator.	Decision
If the parties are not in a position to arrive at consensus as to the Arbitrator, the parties shall approach the appropriate High Court for appointment of the Arbitrator.	Decision
Appellants are jointly and severely liable to pay the arrears of lease rent and also to pay the future lease rent for the equipments of the PV Solar Power Plant at Dongri, Raksa, District Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh at the rate of Rs.28,26,000/ per month till the disposal of the arbitration proceedings.	Decision
Such payment of lease rent shall be without prejudice to the contentions of both parties and shall be subject to the final outcome of arbitration proceedings.	Decision
Since parties are referred to arbitration, commercial Suit No.85 of 2017 filed by the respondents on the file of Delhi High Court shall stand disposed of.	Decision
No cost. .	Decision
