 B. Sinha, J. Appellants were charged with and convicted for commission of offences under Sections 376(2)(g), 302 and 201 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 for rape and murder of one Barnali Deb Poppy (the deceased), a 78 year old girl.	Facts
She was travelling with her parents  Bishnu Deb (fatherP.W.23), Anima Deb (mother P.W.22) and younger brother in a private transport service known as Net Work Travels from Dharmanagar (Tripura).	Facts
They were on their way to Dimapur in the State of Nagaland.	Facts
They reached Net Work Travels Complex at Paltan Bazar, Guwahati at around 10.30 p.m. on 12.7.2002.	Facts
There was no connecting bus to Dimapur at that time.	Facts
They were advised to stay over for the night at Guwahati.	Facts
Appellant No.1 was a night chawkidar of the waiting room of the said Net Work Travels.	Facts
He represented that they could stay there for the night and therefore should not have any apprehension in regard to their safety.	Facts
Their luggage was carried by the appellant No.1 to the waiting room.	Facts
The waiting room had two openings.	Facts
It was covered by grills.	Facts
Only the front gate was open, which was kept under lock and key, the key whereof was with the appellant No.1.2.	Facts
The family of P.W.23 went out for dinner and came back to the said waiting room.	Facts
He and both his children slept.	Facts
Anima Deb (P.W.22), mother of the deceased, however, kept on sitting.	Facts
Appellant No.1 insisted on her repeatedly that she should go to sleep stating that as the waiting room would be locked, there was nothing for her to worry about.	Facts
As she had not been sleeping, the appellant No.1, allegedly, scolded her to do so.	Facts
At that time, a bus bearing No.AS25C1476 arrived at the said bus stop.	Facts
Putul Bora  Appellant No.2 was the handiman of the said bus.	Facts
While the Manager, Driver and the Conductor slept in the said bus, he did not.	Facts
He was seen talking with the appellant No.1.3.	Facts
Anima DebP.W.22 slept for a while.	None
As her son had cried out, she woke up at about 3 p.m.	Facts
She did not find Barnali.	Facts
A hue and cry was raised by her.	Facts
Being attracted by her alarm, Bishnu DebP.W.23 also woke up.	None
They requested the appellant No.1 to open the gates of the waiting room.	Facts
He showed his reluctance at the first instance.	Facts
He was thereafter told about the missing of the girl.	Facts
On being so informed, he opined that she might be somewhere else within the room.	Facts
A search was carried out in the three buses, which were at the bus stop belonging to the travel agency.	Facts
Nearabout places as also the railway station were searched.	None
The bathroom situated in the said premises was also searched.4.	Facts
Shri Kapil Kumar PaulP.W.2, the Cashier of the Net Work Travels was informed about the missing of Barnali Deb.	Facts
As the girl could not be found despite vigorous search, Bishnu Deb, the father of the girl was advised to inform the police.	Facts
A missing entry was lodged before the OfficerinCharge of Paltan Bazar Police Station.	Facts
At about 8.30 a.m. on 14.7.2002, a complaint was made that the flush in the toilet was not working.	Facts
P.W.7Amar Deep Basfore (sweeper) was asked by P.W.2Shri Kapil Kumar Paul to find out the reason therefor.	Facts
He later on opened the septic tank and saw the head of a small child.	Facts
He immediately reported the matter to P.W.1Shri Bidhu Kinkar Goswami as well as P.W.2Shri Kapil Kumar Paul.5.	Facts
A First Information Report was lodged thereafter by Shri Bidhu Kinkar Goswami, the Manager of Net Work Travels.	Facts
In the said First Information Report, apart from the appellant No.1, suspicion was raised about the involvement of driverKrishna Hazarika (P.W.26), conductorRama Hazarika (P.W.25) and the handimanPutul Bora (Appellant No.2 herein) of the bus bearing No.AS25C1476.	Facts
The said bus had already left for its destination at about 6.30 in the morning.	Facts
Even prior thereto, P.W.2 was persuaded that the said bus be permitted to leave early for Jorhat, which was declined.6.	Facts
Pursuant to the said First Information Report, a case under Sections 376(2)(g) and 302 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 was registered.	Facts
A Magistrate was called.	Facts
An inquest of the dead body was made.	Facts
The said bus was intercepted and the driverP.W.26, conductorP.W.25 and Appellant No.2Putul Bora were arrested.	Facts
They were brought to the police station.7.	Facts
During the course of investigation, the appellant No.1 made a confessional statement before the Magistrate under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (the Code for short).	Issue
He gave a vivid description as to how the offence was committed by him and the appellant No.2.8.	Issue
On completion of investigation, a chargesheet was filed against the appellants.	None
They were convicted by the learned Sessions Judge, Kamrup and sentenced to death.	Facts
An appeal preferred by them, by reason of the impugned judgment, has been dismissed by the High Court.9.	Facts
The appellants are, thus before us.	Facts
At our request, Ms. Vibha Datta Makhija, learned counsel assisted us as Amicus Curiae in the matter.	None
Evidently, there was no eyewitness to the occurrence in this case.	None
Nobody had seen the appellants lifting the girl, committing rape and murdering her.	None
The entire prosecution case is based on circumstantial evidences.	None
The circumstances, which found favour with the learned Sessions Judge as also the High Court, are  As against Appellant No.1 The confession of the appellant No.1 recorded by Smt.	None
Nirupama Rajkumari, Judicial Magistrate, 1st Class at Guwahati (P.W.8).	None
ii) Appellant No.1 was the night chawkidar of the Net Work Travel Agency and the parents of the deceased girl along with their children were persuaded to stay at the waiting room in the night.	None
iii) P.Ws.	None
22 and 23 (mother and father of the deceased) were prevailed upon by the appellant No.1 to spend the night in the waiting room.	None
He had also carried their luggage assuring them full security and safety.	None
iv) The key of the waiting room was with him.	None
Appellant No.1 alone, thus, had the access to the waiting room.	None
He only had access to the entire premises.	None
P.W.22Anima Deb saw both the appellants held discussion in suspicious circumstances.	None
vi)	None
Despite the information that Barnali was missing, the appellant No.1 showed his reluctance to open the door.	None
On the contrary, P.Ws.22 and 23 were told that she might be somewhere else in the room.	None
vii)	None
The evidences brought on records go to show that the appellant No.1 had a nefarious plan.	None
viii)	None
A black coloured half pant belonging to the appellant No.1 was seized by the police (Exhibit 3).	None
ix)	None
No explanation was offered by him as to how the said half pant could be found there.	None
It was admitted it belonged to him.	None
As against Appellant No.2 He was the handiman of the bus bearing No.AS25C1476.	None
ii)	None
The evidences of P.Ws. 22, 23 and 26 clearly point out that he held some discussions with the appellant No.1.	None
iii)	None
Although, he had made preparations to sleep in the bus, in which he was travelling, but, in fact, slept in different bus bearing No.AS1G5990.	None
No satisfactory explanation was offered by him to a question put in that behalf by P.W.4Shri Jams Brown, conductor of said bus.	None
iv) P.W.3Shri Kamal Goswami, Manager of the Travel Agency, at about 2/2.30 p.m. had suddenly felt some touch on his leg.	None
He found the appellant No.2 climbing the upper bunker of the vehicle.	None
He was wearing a long pant, although during his journey he was wearing only a jangia.	None
While the missing girl was searched, the appellant No.2 was found to have sustained some injuries on his face, although, no such injury stain was noticed by P.W.3 while they were coming from Nagaon to Guwahati, which showed that the girl offered resistance before being raped.	None
vi)	None
A brown coloured jangia belonging to him was recovered, which was having some white stains.	None
vii)	None
He made constant pressure on P.W.2Shri Kapil Kumar Paul to allow him to leave Paltan Bazar bus stand with his vehicle.	None
Ms. Vibha Datta Makhija, learned Amicus Curiae, in support of the appellants would submita)	Arguments of Petitioner
There are many missing links in the chain which have not been appreciated by the courts below in their proper perspective.b) Seizure of the under garments of the appellants is not free from doubt as the seizure witnesses clearly stated that they had visited police station at different points of time and thus, they could not be witnesses to seizurec)	Arguments of Petitioner
The under garments, which were purported to have seized, had not been sent for chemical examination and thus, inference drawn by the courts below that white stains were semen stains, had not been established.d)	Arguments of Petitioner
Although, urine and blood samples of the appellants were taken, the same having not been sent for chemical analysis, an adverse inference in this behalf should be drawn against the prosecution.e)	Arguments of Petitioner
In the vaginal swap obtained by the doctor, no semen was found.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Forensic Science Laboratory Report was not brought on record and thus, deliberate withholding of material must be held to have weakened the prosecution case.f)	Arguments of Petitioner
Although, the appellant No.1 had the key of the lock, the possibility of some copassengers committing the said offence cannot be ruled out.g)	Arguments of Petitioner
The testimony of mother of the deceased is not reliable as she had omitted to make statements as regards the purport conduct of the appellants before the police.h)	Arguments of Petitioner
No reliance can be placed on the confession of the appellant No.1 as he had remained in police custody for a long time.i) Evidence of Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Nirupama Rajkumari, the Judicial Magistrate (P.W.8) does not show that all statutory requirements in recording the said confession had been carried out.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ng. Junior Luwang, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent, on the other hand, would submit(i) Confession of the appellant No.1 itself was sufficient to uphold the judgment of conviction and sentence of both the appellants(ii)	Arguments of Respondent
The depositions of the prosecution witnesses clearly suggest that offence had been committed between 1 p.m. to 3 p.m.(iii)	Arguments of Respondent
The conduct of Appellant No.1 clearly goes to show that he had committed the offence(iv) Appellant No.2s admitted presence at the spot, his absence from the bus for some time, coupled with the injuries on his face, clearly point out that he had also taken part in commission of the said offence.	Arguments of Respondent
We may, at the outset, place on record that this is one of the rare cases where the witnesses examined on behalf of the prosecution, inter alia, were the employees of the company where the appellants had also been working.	Reasoning
The presence of the appellants at the place of occurrence on the said night is not in dispute.	None
Appellant No.1 was the chawkidar of the waiting room of Net Work Travels and he was the only person who had the key, and without his knowledge nobody could have entered into the waiting room.	None
The waiting room was otherwise secure, having grills and collapsible gates.	None
The second collapsible gate was also closed.	None
The bathroom as also the latrine were situated within the said premises.	None
The family came back to the waiting room after 10.30 p.m.	None
The girl was found missing at about 3 Oclock.	None
A search of the deceased was commenced.	None
She was not found not only within the premises of the waiting room but also other nearby places.	None
The buses belonging to other travel agencies were also searched.	None
A search was carried out even at the railway station.	None
The bus bearing No.AS25C1476, in which the appellant No.2 was working as a handiman, left at about 6.30 a.m. for Jorhat.	None
The dead body was detected at about 9 a.m.	None
The Manager of the Net Work Travels himself lodged the First Information Report suspecting the appellant No.1 as also the driver, conductor and the handiman of the bus bearing No.AS25C1476, as having committed the offence.	None
The said bus was intercepted at about 10 a.m. and they were brought to the police station.	None
P.W.22the mother of the victim saw the appellants herein talking to each other.	None
According to her she was goaded to go to sleep she was even threatened.	None
Appellant No.2 did not have any injury on his face earlier.	None
Shri Kamal Goswami, the Manager of the Net Work Travels, who had travelled with the appellant No.2 in the same bus, in no uncertain terms stated that while he went to sleep, at about 2/2.30 p.m. he suddenly felt a touch on his leg and found the appellant No.2 moving to the upper bunker of the said vehicle.	None
He had been wearing a long pant, although he had been wearing only a jangia while traveling from Nagaon to Guwahati.	None
He had heard that the couple and the children were staying in the waiting room having missed their bus to Dimapur as also in regard to the searches carried out for tracing the missing girl.	None
He also deposed to the effect that although the appellant No.2 had some injuries on his face, he had not offered any explanation therefor.	None
He is also a witness to the seizure of the under pants.	None
Apparently, there is no reason to disbelieve his statement, particularly when both the appellants in their examination under Section 313 of the Code have accepted their presence.	None
Appellant No.2 at no point of time, even during his examination under Section 313 of the Code, could offer any suitable explanation in regard to the stains injuries on his face.	None
Shri Krishna Hazarika, the driver of the bus, examined himself as P.W.26.	None
He proved that the appellant No.2 was seen to be gossiping with the appellant No.1 inside the complex of Net Work Travels.	None
He proved the fact that a search was carried out in regard to the missing of Barnali.	None
He also spoke about the seizure of the under pants containing some stains.	None
This witness categorically stated that when they had gone to sleep, the appellant No.2 was not seen.	None
On the aforementioned aspects he was not even crossexamined.	None
P.W.4Shri Jams Brown was the conductor of bus bearing No.AS1G5990.	None
Apart from corroborating the prosecution case in regard to the commotion emanating from the missing of the deceased, he had stated that after the missing girl was searched, the appellant No.2 came into his bus.	None
On being questioned, he had reported that he came from bus bearing No.AS25C1476 for sleeping.	None
We have noticed hereinbefore that the parents of the deceased girl (P.Ws.22 and 23) stated in details as to under what circumstances they had to stay in the waiting room.	Reasoning
The Cashier of the Net Work Travels  Shri Kapil Kumar Paul, who examined himself as P.W.2, apart from his statements which have been noticed hereinbefore, categorically stated that the appellant No.2, together with the driver and conductor of the bus bearing No.AS25C1476 persuaded pressed him to allow the bus to leave for Jorhat earlier than the scheduled time, and he refused to accede to their request.	Reasoning
It is only because of their conduct he suspected their involvement in the crime.	Reasoning
This witness also categorically stated that lock and key of the waiting room would always be with the chawkidar.28.	Reasoning
We may now consider the manner in which the confessional statement made by the appellant No.1 was recorded.	Reasoning
He was admittedly brought to the Court of Smt.	Reasoning
Nirupama Rajkumari, the Judicial Magistrate, 1st Class at Guwahati (P.W.8), for getting his statement recorded on 24.7.2002.	Reasoning
The voluntariness and truthfulness of the confession is not in dispute.	Reasoning
Appellant No.1 was produced before P.W.8 in her official Chamber at about 4.45 p.m.	Reasoning
He was warned that the confession made by him might be used in evidence against him.	Reasoning
She recorded the confessional statement of the appellant No.1 being satisfied as regards the voluntariness thereof.	Reasoning
The said confessional statement reads as follows I am the night watchman of the Paltan Bazar counter of Network travels.	None
On 13/7/02 I was on duty at the counter.	None
Around 10.30 that night a bus arrived from Dharmanagar.	None
Some passengers from that bus came and requested me to allow them to stay at the counter for the night.	None
The group comprised a man, two women  a girl of about 8 or 9 and a child of about 3 or 4.	None
I allowed them to sleep at the counter.	None
Around 1.30 am one NR Super bus (No.1476) arrived from Jorhat and its staff slept in the bus itself.	None
Around 2 a.m.	None
Putul Bora, handyman of the N.R. Super bus got down from the bus and came to me.	None
Then I proposed to Putul Bora rape of the said 8 or 9 year old girl sleeping at the counter.	None
According to my plan I and Putul Bora lifted the said 8 or 9 year girl in her sleep and in the bathroom at the counter, we raped her, first me and then Putul Bora.	None
As the girl was asleep, she did not shout.	None
After having raped her, we found the girl still.	None
Then I and Putul Bora opened the lid of the septic tank of the lavatory at the counter, put the girl inside the septic tank and closed the lid.	None
Then I left for my duty and Putul Bora went back to the bus and slept there.	None
A bare perusal of the aforementioned statement clearly shows that a detailed statement had been made by him in regard to commission of the offence.	None
A confessional statement, as is well known, is admissible in evidence.	None
It is a relevant fact.	None
The Court may rely thereupon if it is voluntarily given.	None
It may also form the basis of the conviction, wherefor the Court may only have to satisfy itself in regard to voluntariness and truthfulness thereof and in given cases, some corroboration thereof.	None
A confession which is not retracted even at a later stage of the trial and even accepted by the accused in his examination under Section 313 of the Code, in our considered opinion, can be fully relied upon.	None
In this case, not only the confession had not been retracted, the appellant No.1 in his examination under Section 313 of the Code accepted the same, as would be evident from the following questions and answers	None
No.41 It is also in her evidence that on your production, the Magistrate asked you whether you were willing to give a confessional statement of guilt.	None
What is your say?	None
Ans The Magistrate asked me whether I was willing to make confessional statement.	None
I wanted to give my confessional statement as I committed the offence.	None
No.42	None
It is also in her evidence that she made you understand that you are not bound to make confessional statement, the confession so to be made would go against you, that she was not a police man but a magistrate.	None
What is your say?	None
Ans The Magistrate did explain me the above fact to me and consulted the same carefully about the result of such confession.	None
No.43	None
It is also in her evidence that you were put in the charge in the office peon in her chamber (office) at 1.30 PM you were produced and then again at 4.45 PM for recording your statement.	None
Ans Yes, I was produced before her.	None
No.44	None
It is also in her evidence that at your production again she again explained to you the import of confession and you expressed your willingness to give confessional statement.	None
What is your say?	None
Ans	None
Yes I, expressed my willingness to give confessional statement.	None
I understand her all questions (sic) put to me.	None
No.45	None
It is also in her evidence that inspite of repeated caution you were sanguine to give a confessional statement about your guilt.	None
What is your say?	None
Ans I was sanguine to given confessional statement because I was repenting to my misdeed that I did.	None
No.46	None
It is also in her evidence that you voluntarily gave confessional statement, what is your say?	None
Ans.	None
Yes, I voluntarily gave my confessional statement because I committed the offence.	None
I am guilty of the offence.	None
No.47	None
It is also in her evidence that she recorded your confessional statement and the statement was readover to you and put your signatures having found the same as correct.	None
What is your say?	None
Ans Yes, my confessional statement was recorded by the Magistrate.	None
The confessional statement so recorded was not read over to me.	None
I put my signature in the confessional statement.	None
No.48	None
It is also in her evidence that Ext.10 is the confessional statement recorded by her wherein Ext.10(7) to 10(8) and 10(9) are my signatures and Ext.10(1) to 10(6) are her signatures.	None
What is your say?	None
Ans Yes.	None
Ext.10(7) to 10(9) are my signatures.	None
We are not oblivious of the general proposition of law that confession would not ordinarily be considered the basis for a conviction.	None
We must, however, at this stage, notice that this is one of those rare cases where an appellant had stuck to his own confessional statements.	None
He did not make any attempt to retract.	None
He even did not state that it was not truthful or involuntary.	None
It is well settled that statements under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, cannot form the sole basis of conviction but the effect thereof may be considered in the light of other evidences brought on record.	None
See Mohan Singh vs. Prem Singh (2002) 10 SCC 236 , State of U.P. vs. Lakhmi (1998) 4 SCC 336 , and Rattan Singh vs. State of HP.	None
(1997) 4 SCC 161 .	None
In Aloke Nath Dutta Ors.	None
vs. State of West Bengal 2006 (13) SCALE 467 , this Court noticed the law in regard to the effect of a confessional statement of the accused in the following terms Sections 24 to 30 deal with confession.	None
Section 24 speaks of the effect of a confession made by an accused through inducement, threat or promise proceeding from a person in authority.	None
Whereas section 25 and section 26 deal with situations where such person in authority is police.	None
It is an institutionalized presumption against confession extracted by police or in police custody.	None
In that frame of reference, Section 24 is the genus and sections 25 and 26 are its species.	None
In other words, section 25 and section 26 are simple corollaries flowing out of the axiomatic and generalized proposition (confession caused by inducement where inducement proceeds from a person in authority, is bad in law) contained in section 24.	None
They are directed towards assessing the value of a confession made to a police officer or in police custody.	None
The policy underlying behind Sections 25 and 26 is to make it a substantive rule of law that confessions whenever and wherever made to the police, or while in the custody of the police unless made in the immediate presence of a magistrate, shall be presumed to have been obtained under the circumstances mentioned in Section 24 and, therefore, inadmissible, except so far as is provided by Section 27 of the Act.	None
Section 164, however, makes the confession before a Magistrate admissible in evidence.	None
The manner in which such confession is to be recorded by the Magistrate is provided under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	None
The said provision, inter alia, seeks to protect an accused from making a confession, which may include a confession before a Magistrate, still as may be under influence, threat or promise from a person in authority.	None
It takes into its embrace the right of an accused flowing from Article 20(3) of the Constitution of India as also Article 21 thereof.	None
Although, Section 164 provides for safeguards, the same cannot be said to be exhaustive in nature.	None
The Magistrate putting the questions to an accused brought before him from police custody, should some time, in our opinion, be more intrusive than what is required in law.	None
See Babubhai Udesinh Parmar v. State of Gujarat  2006 (12) SCALE 385 .	None
In a case, where confession is made in the presence of a Magistrate conforming the requirements of Section 164, if it is retracted at a later stage, the court in our opinion, should probe deeper into the matter.	None
Despite procedural safeguards contained in the said provision, in our opinion, the learned Magistrate should satisfy himself that whether the confession was of voluntary nature.	None
It has to be appreciated that there can be times where despite such procedural safeguards, confessions are made for unknown reasons and in fact made out of fear of police.	None
Judicial confession must be recorded in strict compliance of the provisions of Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	None
While doing so, the court shall not go by the black letter of law as contained in the aforementioned provision but must make further probe so as to satisfy itself that the confession is truly voluntary and had not been by reason of any inducement, threat or torture.	None
It was further opined In a case of retracted confession, the courts while arriving at a finding of guilt would not ordinarily rely solely thereupon and would look forward for corroboration of material particulars.	None
Such corroboration must not be referable in nature.	None
Such corroboration must be independent and conclusive in nature.	None
In State (N.C.T. of Delhi) vs. Navjot Sandhu Afsan Guru (2005) 11 SS 600, this Court stated As to what should be the legal approach of the court called upon to convict a person primarily in the light of the confession or a retracted confession has been succinctly summarised in Bharat v. State of U.P. Hidayatullah, C.J., speaking for a threeJudge Bench observed thus (SCC p. 953, para 7) Confessions can be acted upon if the court is satisfied that they are voluntary and that they are true.	None
The voluntary nature of the confession depends upon whether there was any threat, inducement or promise and its truth is judged in the context of the entire prosecution case.	None
The confession must fit into the proved facts and not run counter to them.	None
When the voluntary character of the confession and its truth are accepted, it is safe to rely on it.	None
Indeed a confession, if it is voluntary and true and not made under any inducement or threat or promise, is the most patent piece of evidence against the maker.	None
Retracted confession, however, stands on a slightly different footing.	None
As the Privy Council once stated, in India it is the rule to find a confession and to find it retracted later.	None
A court may take into account the retracted confession, but it must look for the reasons for the making of the confession as well as for its retraction, and must weigh the two to determine whether the retraction affects the voluntary nature of the confession or not.	None
If the court is satisfied that it was retracted because of an afterthought or advice, the retraction may not weigh with the court if the general facts proved in the case and the tenor of the confession as made and the circumstances of its making and withdrawal warrant its user.	None
All the same, the courts do not act upon the retracted confession without finding assurance from some other sources as to the guilt of the accused.	None
Therefore, it can be stated that a true confession made voluntarily may be acted upon with slight evidence to corroborate it, but a retracted confession requires the general assurance that the retraction was an afterthought and that the earlier statement was true.	None
We may also notice that in Sidharth Ors.	None
vs. State of Bihar (2005) 12 SCC 545 , this Court opined The confession made by the appellant Arnit Das is voluntary and is fully corroborated by the above items of evidence.	None
The Sessions Judge was perfectly justified in relying on the confession made by the appellant Arnit Das.	None
In a case where sufficient materials are brought on records to lend assurance to the Court in regard to the truthfulness of the confession made, which is corroborated by several independent circumstances lending assurance thereto, even a retracted confession may be acted upon.	None
See State of Tamil Nadu vs. Kutty Lakshmi Narsimhan (2001) 6 SCC 550	None
Bhagwan Singh vs. State of M.P. (2003) 3 SCC 21 and Sarwan Singh Rattan Singh vs. State of Punjab 1957 SCR 953 .	None
We have analysed at some length the corroborative nature of evidences brought on records by the prosecution.	None
The fact that the appellants were seen talking to each other, absence of the appellant No.2 from the bus in question, his effort to sleep in another bus leaving his own bus, his absence for about 1 to 1 hour, injury stains on his face and change of his garments during that period, all stand well proved.	None
They, in our considered view, lend corroboration to prosecution case as also the judicial confession made by the appellant No.1.	None
Indeed corroboration to the said confession and the circumstantial evidences as noticed hereinbefore can also be judged from the statements made by the appellant No.2 in his examination under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	None
The relevant questions and answers there under are as follows Q.14 Was the other accused, the watchman, present that night?	None
Ans It is true the other accused, the watchman, was there.	None
Q.19 Did your bus, i.e. bus No.AS25C1476, start from Jorhat in the morning?	None
Ans That is true.	None
Q.25 Where you there in the Network travels compound that night with the vehicle?	None
Ans That is true.	None
Q.32	None
The witness say stains on your face and when he asked you about, you could not say anything.	None
You had no stains in your face when you had come from Nagaon?	None
Ans That is true.	None
Q.33	None
By ext.6 the police seized the underpants you were wearing which had white stains on it.	None
Ext 6(1) is the signature of the witness.	None
What is your statement?	None
Ans That is true.	None
Q.34 Witness No.4 has stated that on the night of occurrence he was the Conductor of bus No.AS1065996 and that you were on the campus.	None
Is that true?	None
Ans That is true.	None
Q.36 Witness No.5 has stated that he is the owner of bus No.AS25C1476 that the manager informed him over telephone that a girl had gone missing from the waiting room of Network travels that he then came and went to Paltan Bazar police station and that the police seized your undergarments.	None
Is that true?	None
Ans That is true.	None
Q.42 Witness No.9 he stated that in his presence Paltan Bazar Police seized, by ext.6, your undergarments containing white stains.	None
What is your statement?	None
Ans That is true.	None
Q.84	None
The following morning you and the driver and the conductor started from Jorhat by that bus, and the police seized the bus at Kahara with you all.	None
Is that true?	None
Ans That is true.	None
Q.96 Did the police seized your undergarments that had white stains on it?	None
Ans	None
That is true.	None
Indisputably, Section 30 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, in a situation of the present nature, can be taken aid of.	None
The courts below did take into consideration the confessional effect of the statements made by the appellant No.1 as against the appellant No.2 for arriving at an opinion that by reason thereof involvement of both of them amply stand proved.	None
The expression the court may take into consideration such confession is significant.	None
It signifies that such confession by the maker as against the coaccused himself should be treated as a piece of corroborative evidence.	None
In absence of any substantive evidence, no judgment of conviction can be recorded only on the basis of confession of a coaccused, be it extra judicial confession or a judicial confession and least of all on the basis of retracted confession.	None
The question has been considered in State of M.P. through CBI Ors.	None
Vs.	None
Paltan Mallah Ors.	None
(2005) 3 SCC 169 , stating Under Section 30 of the Evidence Act, the extrajudicial confession made by a coaccused could be admitted in evidence only as a corroborative piece of evidence.	None
In the absence of any substantive evidence against these accused persons, the extrajudicial confession allegedly made by the ninth accused loses its significance and there cannot be any conviction based on such extrajudicial confession In Sidhartha (supra), this Court held It is true that the confession made by a coaccused shall not be the sole basis for a conviction.	None
This Court in Kashmira Singh v. State of M.P. held that the confession of an accused person is not evidence in the ordinary sense of the term as defined in Section 3.	None
It cannot be made the foundation of a conviction and can only be used in support of other evidence.	None
The proper way is, first, to marshal the evidence against the accused excluding the confession altogether from consideration and see whether, if it is believed, a conviction could safely be based on it.	None
If it is capable of belief independently of the confession, then of course it is not necessary to call the confession in aid.	None
But cases may arise where the judge is not prepared to act on the other evidence as it stands, even though, if believed, it would be sufficient to sustain a conviction.	None
In such an event the judge may call in aid the confession and use it to lend assurance to the other evidence and thus fortify himself in believing what without the aid of the confession he would not be prepared to accept.	None
In Ram Parkash vs. The State of Punjab 1959 SCR 1219 , it was held That a voluntary and true confession made by an accused though it was subsequently retracted by him, can be taken into consideration against a coaccused by virtue of s. 30 of the Indian Evidence Act, but as a matter of prudence and practice the court should not act upon it to sustain a conviction of the coaccused without full and strong corroboration in material particulars both as to the crime and as to his connection with that crime.	None
The amount of credibility to be attached to a retracted confession would depend upon the circumstances of each particular case.	None
It was further opined On the evidence in the case the confession of P was voluntary and true and was strongly corroborated in material particulars both concerning the general story told in the confession concerning the crime and the appellants connection with crime.	None
See also Navjot Sandhu (supra) and Jaswant Gir vs. State of Punjab (2005) 12 SCC 438 .	None
Both the appellants had accepted their presence at the place of occurrence.	None
Appellant No.2 had accepted that there were injuries on his face.	None
He also accepted that there were stains in his seized undergarment.	None
Ms. Makhija may be correct in saying that all the witnesses to the seizure are not truthful, but, apart from the Investigating Officer, seizure has been proved by P.W.4 and P.W.26.	None
They were themselves suspects they were brought to the police station.	None
They must have been interrogated and if they were witnesses to the seizure, we do not find any reason as to why we should completely ignore the seizure of the said undergarments, particularly in regard to its relevance, visvis, the statement of the manager of the bus that he had changed his dress within the probable time of commission of the offence.	None
Indisputably, the investigation was done in a slipshod manner.	None
The undergarments should have been sent for chemical analysis.	None
Even the urine and blood samples, which were taken, allegedly, have been sent for their analysis in the Forensic Laboratory.	None
According to the Investigating Officer, the report was placed on records.	None
It, however, was not marked as exhibit.	None
Apart from the Investigating Officer, indeed the Public Prosecutor was remiss in performing his duties.	None
Submission of Ms. Makhija, that the possibility of the other passenger committing the crime cannot be ruled out, in our opinion, is wholly misplaced.	None
Some more passengers may be there in the waiting room, but, they were found present at the time of search of the deceased girl.	None
Evidently, they must have been found sleeping.	None
If they had committed the offence, some suspicious circumstances could have been found.	None
They were not suspected even by the parents of the deceased girl.	None
Evidently, they could not have gone out as the lock and key was with the appellant No.1.	None
Even no outsider would come in to commit the offence.	None
The bathroom, where the offence had been committed, measures 5 ft. x 5 ft.	None
It was within the locked premises.	None
Only the septic tank was outside the premises, wherefrom the dead body of Barnali was recovered.	None
There were two other small rooms.	None
One was urinal for the passengers.	None
Another was the place of drinking water.	None
Both were on the two sides of the said bathroom.	None
Even the office room and the store room of the Net Work Travels were within the enclosed premises.	None
There was an office room of Air India.	None
There were three buses, which were parked outside.	None
Only because six other persons were there in the bus, suspicion cannot be pointed out to them.	None
It is settled that the conviction can be based solely on circumstantial evidence, but it should be tested by the touchstone of law relating thereto as laid down by this Court in Hanumant Govind Nargundkar vs. State of M.P. AIR 1952 SC 343 .	None
See Sharad Birdhichand Sarda vs. State of Maharashtra (1984) 4 SCC 116 .	None
In Hodges case 168 ER 1136 at 1137, it was held Alderson, B., told the jury, that the case was made up of circumstances entirely and that, before they could find the prisoner guilty, they must be satisfied, not only that those circumstances were consistent with his having committed the act, but they must also be satisfied that the facts were such as to be inconsistent with any other rational conclusion than that the prisoner was the guilty person.	None
He then pointed out to them the proneness of the human mind to look for  and often slightly to distort the facts in order to establish such a proposition  forgetting that a single circumstance which is inconsistent with such a conclusion, is of more importance than all the rest, inasmuch as it destroys the hypothesis of guilt.	None
Appellant No.1s involvement in the offence stands proved beyond all reasonable doubt.	None
Apart from his conduct, his confessional statement, which is admissible in evidence under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, is clear pointer to his guilt.	None
Appellant No.2s involvement is also proved.	None
Their conduct, in particular the conduct of the appellant No.1, as has been disclosed by the prosecution witnesses is admissible under Section 8 of the Indian Evidence Act.	None
We are, therefore, satisfied that the appellants had rightly been found guilty of committing the offence.	None
The question which remains is as to what punishment should be awarded.	Issue
Ordinarily, this Court, having regard to the nature of the offence, would not have differed with the opinion of the learned Sessions Judge as also the High Court in this behalf, but it must be borne in mind that the appellants are convicted only on the basis of the circumstantial evidence.	None
There are authorities for the proposition that if the evidence is proved by circumstantial evidence, ordinarily, death penalty would not be awarded.	None
Moreover, the appellant No.1 showed his remorse and repentance even in his statement under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	None
He accepted his guilt.	None
In State of Rajasthan vs. Kheraj Ram (2003) 8 SCC 224 , this Court has stated the law thus In Machhi Singh v. State of Punjab (1983) 3 SCC 470 it was observed The following questions may be asked and answered as a test to determine the rarest of the rare case in which death sentence can be inflicted Is there something uncommon about the crime which renders sentence of imprisonment for life inadequate and calls for a death sentence?	None
Are the circumstances of the crime such that there is no alternative but to impose death sentence even after according maximum weightage to the mitigating circumstances which speak in favour of the offender?	None
(SCC p.489, para 39)	None
The following guidelines which emerge from Bachan Singh case (supra) will have to be applied to the facts of each individual case where the question of imposition of death sentence arises The extreme penalty of death need not be inflicted except in gravest cases of extreme culpability.	None
Before opting for the death penalty the circumstances of the offender also require to be taken into consideration along with the circumstances of the crime.	None
Life imprisonment is the rule and death sentence is an exception.	None
Death sentence must be imposed only when life imprisonment appears to be an altogether inadequate punishment having regard to the relevant circumstances of the crime, and provided, and only provided, the option to impose sentence of imprisonment for life cannot be conscientiously exercised having regard to the nature and circumstances of the crime and all the relevant circumstances.	None
A balance sheet of aggravating and mitigating circumstances has to be drawn up and in doing so the mitigating circumstances have to be accorded full weightage and a just balance has to be struck between the aggravating and the mitigating circumstances before the option is exercised.	None
(SCC p.489, para 38).	None
In rarest of rare cases when collective conscience of the community is so shocked that it will expect the holders of the judicial power centre to inflict death penalty irrespective of their personal opinion as regards desirability or otherwise of retaining death penalty, death sentence can be awarded.	None
The community may entertain such sentiment in the following circumstances When the murder is committed in an extremely brutal, grotesque, diabolical, revolting or dastardly manner so as to arouse intense and extreme indignation of the community.	None
(SCC pp. 48788, paras 3233).	None
When the murder is committed for a motive which evinces total depravity and meanness e.g. murder by hired assassin for money or reward or a coldblooded murder for gains of a person visvis whom the murderer is in a dominating position or in a position of trust, or murder is committed in the course for betrayal of the motherland.	None
(SCC p.488, para 34)	None
When murder of a member of a Scheduled Caste or minority community etc., is committed not for personal reasons but in circumstances which arouse social wrath, or in cases of bride burning or dowry deaths or when murder is committed in order to remarry for the sake of extracting dowry once again or to marry another woman on account of infatuation.	None
(SCC p.488, para 35) When the crime is enormous in proportion.	None
For instance when multiple murders, say of all or almost all the members of a family or a large number of persons of a particular caste, community, or locality, are committed.	None
(SCC p.488, para 36) When the victim of murder is an innocent child, or a helpless woman or an old or infirm person or a person visvis whom the murderer is in a dominating position or a public figure generally loved and respected by the community.	None
(SCC pp.48889, para 37).	None
If upon taking an overall global view of all the circumstances in the light of the aforesaid propositions and taking into account the answers to the questions posed by way of the test for the rarest of rare cases, the circumstances of the case are such that death sentence is warranted, the court would proceed to do so.	None
(SCC p.489, para 40)	None
In State of M.P. vs. Munna Choubey Anr.	None
(2005) 2 SCC 710 , it was observed as under Therefore, undue sympathy to impose inadequate sentence would do more harm to the justice system to undermine the public confidence in the efficacy of law and society could not long endure under such serious threats.	None
It is, therefore, the duty of every court to award proper sentence having regard to the nature of the offence and the manner in which it was executed or committed etc.	None
This position was illuminatingly stated by this Court in Sevaka Perumal v. State of Tamil Naidu (1991 3 SCC 471.	None
In Sahdeo Ors.	None
vs. State of U.P. (2004) 10 SCC 682 , this Court opined As regards the sentence of death imposed on five accused persons by the sessions court, which was confirmed by the appellate court, the counsel for the appellants, Shri Sushil Kumar submitted that in the absence of clear and convincing evidence regarding the complicity of the accused, these appellants could not be visited with the death penalty, while the counsel for the State submitted that this is a ghastly incident in which eight persons were done to death and the death penalty alone is the most appropriate punishment to be imposed.	None
Though it is proved that there was an unlawful assembly and the common object of that unlawful assembly was to kill the deceased persons, there is another aspect of the matter inasmuch as there is no clear evidence by the use of whose firearm all the six deceased persons died as a result of firing in the bus.	None
It is also pertinent to note that the investigating agency failed to produce clear and distinct evidence to prove the actual overt acts of each of the accused.	None
The failure to examine the driver and conductor of the bus, the failure to seize the bus and the absence of a proper mahzar, are all lapses on the part of investigating agency.	None
Moreover, the doctor who gave evidence before the court was not properly crossexamined regarding the nature of the injuries.	None
Some more details could have been collected as to how the incident might have happened inside the bus.	None
These facts are pointed out to show that the firing may have been caused by the assailants even while they were still standing on the footboard of the bus and some of the appellants may not, in fact, have had an occasion to use the firearm, though they fully shared the common object of the unlawful assembly.	None
Imposition of the death penalty on each of the five appellants may not be justified under such circumstances.	None
We take this view in view of the peculiar circumstances of the case and it should not be understood to mean that the accused persons are not to be convicted under Section 302 read with Section 149 and the death penalty cannot be imposed in the absence of various overt acts by individual accused persons.	None
In view of the nature and circumstances of the case, we commute the death sentence imposed on A1 Sahdeo, A4 Subhash, A5 Chandraveer, A7 Satyapal and A10 Parvinder to imprisonment for life.	None
In Raju vs. State of Haryana (2001) 9 SCC 50 , it has been opined by this Court However, the next question is whether this would be a rarest of rare cases where extreme punishment of death is required to be imposed.	None
In the present case, from the confessional statement made by the accused, it would appear that there was no intention on the part of the accused to commit the murder of the deceased child.	None
He caused injury to the deceased by giving two brick blows as she stated that she would disclose the incident at her house.	None
It is true that learned Sessions Judge committed error in recording the evidence of SI Shakuntala, PW 15 with regard to the confessional statement made to her, but in any set of circumstances, the evidence on record discloses that the accused was not having an intention to commit the murder of the girl who accompanied him.	None
On the spur of the moment without there being any premeditation, he gave two brick blows which caused her death.	None
There is nothing on record to indicate that the appellant was having any criminal record nor can he be said to be a grave danger to the society at large.	None
In these circumstances, it would be difficult to hold that the case of the appellant would be rarest of rare case justifying imposition of death penalty.	None
Yet, recently in Amrit Singh vs. State of Punjab 2006 AIR SCW 5712, this Court, in a case where the death was not found to have been intended to be caused, was of the opinion that no case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code was made out stating Imposition of death penalty in a case of this nature, in our opinion, was, thus, improper.	None
Even otherwise, it cannot be said to be a rarest of rare cases.	None
The manner in which the deceased was raped may be brutal but it could have been a momentary lapse on the part of Appellant, seeing a lonely girl at a secluded place.	None
He had no premeditation for commission of the offence.	None
The offence may look a heinous, but under no circumstances, it can be said to be a rarest of rare cases.	None
See also Sheikh Ishaque Ors.	None
vs. State of Bihar (1995) 3 SCC 392 , Rony vs. State of Maharashtra (1998) 3 SCC 625 , Bachan Singh vs. State of Punjab (1980) 2 SCC 684 and Machhi Singh (supra).	None
This aspect of the matter has recently been considered at some length by this Court in Aloke Nath Dutta (supra).	None
There is another aspect of this matter which cannot be overlooked.	None
Appellant No.1 made a confession.	None
He felt repentant not only while making the confessional statement before the Judicial Magistrate, but also before the learned Sessions Judge in his statement under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.65.	None
It is, therefore, in our opinion, not a case where extreme death penalty should be imposed.	Decision
We, therefore, are of the opinion that imposition of punishment of rigorous imprisonment for life shall meet the ends of justice.	Decision
It is directed accordingly.	Decision
Both the appellants, therefore, are, instead of being awarded death penalty, are sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life, but other part of sentence imposed by the learned Sessions Judge are maintained.66.	Decision
Subject to the modification in the sentence mentioned hereinbefore, this appeal is dismissed.67.	Decision
We must, before parting, however, express our appreciation for Ms. Makhija who had rendered valuable assistance to us.	Decision
