 Wanchoo, J. 1.	None
These two writ petitions which were heard along with Purushothaman Nambudiri v. State of Kerala (W. P. No.105 of 1961)raise the constitutionality of the Kerala Agrarian Relations Act.	Facts
No. IV of 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Issue
The petitioners come from that part of the State of Kerala which was formerly in the South Canara district of the State of Madras and came to the State of Kerala by the States Reorganisation Act of 1956.	Facts
Their lands are situate in Hosdrug and Kasargod Taluks which have now been made part of the Cannanore District in the State of Kerala.	Facts
They hold large areas of lands, the major part of which is held by them as ryotwari pattadars, according to the ryotwari settlement in the State of Madras under the Boards Standing Orders of that State.	Facts
In these lands they have areca and pepper plantations besides rubber plantations.	Facts
They also grow other crops on some of the lands.	Facts
The Act is being attacked on the ground that it contravenes Arts.	Arguments of Petitioner
14, 19 and 31 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Besides this, it is also contended on behalf of the petitioners that the Bill which became the Act lapsed under the provisions of the Constitution and therefore the assent given to the Bill by the President was of no effect and did not result in the Bill becoming an Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
We do not think it necessary to set out the details of the attack on this last score in the present petitions as the matter has been considered in full in the judgment in the connected Writ petn.	None
No. 105 of 1961 (SC).	None
The petitioners further submit that their lands which they hold as ryotwari pattadars are not estates within the meaning of Art. 31A(2)(a) of the Constitution and therefore the Act so far as it affects them is not protected under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
31A, and it is open to them to assail it as violative of the rights conferred on them by Arts.	None
14, 19 and 31 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
They have attacked the Act on a number of grounds as ultra vires the Constitution in view of the provisions of Arts.	None
14, 19 and 31.	None
We do not however think it necessary to detail all the attacks on the constitutionality of the Act for present purposes.	None
It is enough to say that the main attack on the constitutionality of the Act has been made on the following six grounds See AIR 1962 SC 694 .	None
(1) The Bill which became the Act had lapsed before it was assented to by the President and therefore the assent of the President to a lapsed bill was of no avail to turn it into law.	None
(2) The Act is a piece of colourable legislation as it has made certain deductions from the compensation payable to landholders under Chap.	Arguments of Petitioner
II and to others who held excess land under Chap.	Arguments of Petitioner
III and this amounts to acquisition of money by the State which it is not competent to do under the power conferred on it in Lists II and III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3) The properties of the petitioners who are ryotwari pattadars are not estates within the meaning of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
31A of the Consititution and therefore the Act is not protected under that Article so far as it applies to lands of ryotwari pattadars like the petitioners.	Arguments of Petitioner
(4) The Act exempts plantation of tea, coffee, rubber and cardamom from certain provisions thereof, but no such exemption has been granted to plantations of areca and pepper, and this is clearly discriminatory and is violative of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
14.	Arguments of Petitioner
(5) The manner in which ceiling is fixed under the Act results in discrimination and is therefore violative of Art. 14, (6) The compensation which is payable under Chapters II and III of the Act has been reduced by progressive cuts as the amount of compensation increases and this amounts to discrimination between persons similarly situate and is therefore violative of Art. 14.2.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitions have been opposed on behalf of the State and its contention is, firstly, that the Bill did not lapse and the Presidents assent was rightly given to it and it rightly became law secondly, that the petitioners lands are estates within the meaning of Art. 31A(2)(a) and the Act is therefore protected under that Article thirdly that the Act is not a piece of colourable legislation and the State Legislature was competent to enact the Act under item 18 of List II and item 42 of List III of the Seventh Schedule and there is no acquisition of money by the State under the Act and reference is made to s. 80 of the Act in this connection and lastly, that the discrimination alleged with respect to plantations, the fixation of ceiling and the deductions from compensation payable under Chapters II and III is really no discrimination at all and the provisions in that behalf are based on an intelligible differentia which is in accordance with the object and purpose of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Re.	None
(1).	None
3.	None
The question whether the Bill which finally received the assent of the President on January 21, 1961, had lapsed because the legislative assembly which originally passed it was dissolved and a new legislative assembly which came into being after the general elections reconsidered and repassed it under Art. 201 of the Constitution has been considered by us in Writ petition No. 105 of 1961 (SC),judgment in which has just been delivered and it has been held there that the bill did not lapse and therefore it validly became law when the President assented to it.	Issue
The attack on the Act therefore on this ground must fail.	None
See AIR 1962 SC 694 .	None
Re.	None
(2).	None
4.	None
We now come to the attack made on the Act on the ground that it is a piece of colourable legislation beyond the legislative competence of the State legislature.	None
What is colourable legislation is now wellsettled see K. C. Gajapati Narayan Deo v. State of Orissa, 1954	None
SCR 1 (AIR 1953 SC 375) where it was heldthat the question whether a law was a colourable legislation and as such void did not depend on the motive or bona fides of the legislature in passing the law but upon the competency of the legislature to pass that particular law, and what the courts have to determine in such cases is whether though the legislature has purported to act within the limits of its powers, it has in substance and reality transgressed those powers, the transgression being veiled by what appears, on proper examination, to be a mere pretence or disguise.	None
The whole doctrine of colourable legislation is based upon the maxim that you cannot do indirectly what you cannot do directly.	None
5.	None
The Act has been passed under the legislative powers vested in the State legislature under item 18 of List II and item 42 of List III of the Seventh Schedule.	None
Item 18 of List II deals inter alia with land, that is to say, rights in or over land, landtenures including the relation of landlord and tenant, and the collection of rents.	None
Item 42 of List III deals with acquisition and requisitioning of property.	None
The contention on behalf of the petitioners is that in the guise of legislating under these two entries the State legislature by the employment of certain devices has taken away money, which should have gone to landowners or to those from whom excess lands were being acquired.	Arguments of Petitioner
The attack is based on the facts that in S. 52 of the Act compensation payable to a landowner is reduced after the purchase price to be paid by the tenant to whom the land is to be assigned has been ascertained, and that in S. 64 of the Act the compensation payable to a person from whom excess land is taken is reduced by certain percentage after the market value of the land has been determined.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged that by these devices the State is acquiring money which should properly have gone to the landowner to whom compensation is payable under S. 52 and to the person who surrenders excess land to whom compensation is payable under S. 64.There is no doubt that certain deductions are made from the purchase price payable by the tenant under S. 45 and from the market value before compensation is arrived at for payment to the landowner under S. 52 and to the person surrendering excess land under S. 64.	None
But if one looks at the purpose and object of the Act it will be clear that the main provisions of the Act are clearly within the legislative competence of the State legislature under item 18 of List II and item 42 of List III.	None
The scheme of the Act so far as Chap.	None
II dealing with extinction of the landowners right is concerned is that the landowners right is vested in the State under Ss. 41 and 42 on a day to be notified by the Government in that behalf.	None
Thereafter, S. 43 provides that cultivating tenants of the lands which have vested in the State shall have a right to assignment of the right, title and interest so vested in the State on payment of a certain price which is calculated under S. 45 and is called the purchase price.	None
After the purchase price is determined, the compensation to be paid to the landowner is provided by Section 52 and there is reduction in the purchase price for the purposes of giving compensation.	None
It is however obvious that the object of Chapter II is to vest proprietorship in the land in the cultivating tenants and for that purpose Chap.	None
II provides for carrying out the object in two stages.	None
In the first stage, the property of the landowner is vested in the State.	None
Thereafter the tenant is given the right to acquire that property from the State.	None
What price the tenant is to pay for the land is worked out under S. 45 and what compensation the State is to pay to the landowner is worked out under S. 52, which however reduces the purchase price arrived at under S. 45 for the purpose of giving compensation.	None
It is however clear that tenants are not bound to apply to acquire the land which they hold as tenants and where they do not do so, S. 44(3) provides that they become the tenants of Government and shall be liable to pay to the Government the rent payable in respect of the land from the date on which the right, title and interest over the land vested in the Government.	None
It cannot therefore be said that the scheme which provides for two stages, namely, first acquisition by Government and secondly assignment to tenants is a camouflage devised for the purpose of taking away the money which would otherwise have been payable to the landowner in case the interest of the landowner was directly transferred to the cultivating tenants.	None
It is also clear that there is bound to be a time lag between the acquisition under Ss. 41 and 42 and the assignment to tenants under S. 43 and the subsequent sections and in the meantime the Government would be owner of the rights acquired.	None
Clearly, therefore Chap.	None
II of the Act envisages first the acquirement of the landowners interest by the State for which compensation is payable under S. 52.	None
Thereafter the State will assign to such cultivating tenants as may apply the rights acquired by the State and there is likely to be an interval between the two transactions.	None
Besides some cultivating tenants may not apply at all and that part of the property will remain with the State Government.	None
In these circumstances it cannot be said that the scheme evolved in Chap.	None
II is a device for taking away any part of the money due to the landowner from the tenant to whom his interest may eventually be assigned.	None
Besides the adequacy of compensation provided under S. 52 for acquisition by the State of the interest of the landowner cannot be challenged on the ground that the compensation provided by the law is not adequate see Art. 31 (2).	None
It is only because the compensation provided under Section 52 is a percentage of the purchase price as calculated under S. 45 that it appears as if the State is taking away a part of the compensation due to the landowner.	None
Section 52 is however only a method for determining compensation and the whole compensation due to the landowner is to be found in S. 52 and it cannot therefore be said that any part of the compensation is being taken away by the State.	None
6.	None
Similarly the scheme of Chap.	None
III which provides a ceiling is that any land in excess of the ceiling shall vest in the Government under S. 62.	None
Thereafter the land so vested in Government can be assigned under S. 70 to persons who do not possess any land or possess land less than 5 acres of double crop nilam or its equivalent.	None
It is true that Government may assign the lands to those who apply under S. 70 but it is not bound to do so and here again there will be a time lag between the vesting of the excess land in the Government under S. 62 and its assignment to those who are eligible under S. 70.	None
The charge that in this Chapter there is a device for taking away the compensation due to the landowner is based on the fact that under S. 72 the person to whom the land is assigned under S. 70 has to pay 55 per cent of the market value of the land while the person from whom the excess land is taken is not always paid 55 per cent of the market value, inasmuch as the percentage goes down to 25 per cent, of the market value in certain circumstances.	None
But here again the compensation is provided entirely under S. 64 and it is that Section which sets out the manner in which the compensation is to be provided.	None
The adequacy of that compensation cannot be questioned in view of Art. 31 (2).	None
The fact that under Ss. 70 and 72 when the Government in its turn assigns land to those who are eligible for such assignment, a different percentage of market value is fixed would not make these provisions a device to take away the money due to those who surrender excess land.	None
As we have already said the compensation to those who surrender excess land is all provided by S. 64 and even if there is a difference between the price payable under S. 72 by the assignee and the compensation payable to the landowner under S. 64 that would not amount to taking away the money of the landowner by a device particularly when the assignment is bound to take place sometime after the property has been acquired by Government.	None
7.	None
It is also clear from the provisions contained in Chapters II and III of the Act that the main purpose of the Act is to do away with intermediaries and to fix a ceiling and give the excess land, if any, to the landless or those who hold land much below the ceiling.	None
The method employed to carry out this object is first to acquire the land for the State and thereafter to assign it to the cultivating tenants or to the landless or to those with small amounts of land.	None
The main provisions of the Act therefore are clearly within the legislative competence of the State legislature under item 18 of List II and item 42 of List III and this is not being disputed on behalf of the petitioners.	None
But what they contend is that in the process of doing this, the Government has by adopting certain devices taken away the money which was due to the landowner or to the person from whom the excess land is acquired.	None
This argument is however fallacious because the compensation due to the landowner or the person from whom excess land is acquired is not what is provided by S. 45 and S. 72 but what is provided in S. 52 and S. 64.	None
The adequacy of that compensation cannot be challenged in view of Art. 31(2), and there is therefore no justification for saying that the money due to the landowner or the person from whom the excess land is acquired is being taken away by the State.	None
That argument would only be possible if the compensation was the whole amount arrived at under S. 45 or under S. 72 and from that the Government deducted money due to the landowner.	None
That however is not so and the compensation to which the landowner or the person from whom the excess land is acquired is to be found only in Ss. 52 and 64 and there is thus no question of taking away any money due to the landowner.	None
8.	None
Further, whatever unfairness might appear because of the difference between Ss. 45 and 52 on the one hand and Ss. 64 and 72 on the other and the manner in which the compensation is shown as a percentage of the purchase price or the market value is removed by the provision in S. 80 of the Act.	None
That Section provides for the constitution of an agriculturist rehabilitation fund in which the surplus, it any, of the purchase price after the disbursement therefrom of the compensation is to be put along with other moneys.	None
This surplus does not go to the revenues of the State and the State cannot be said to have taken away for its own purpose any part of the compensation.	None
Further S. 80 provides that the fund shall be utilised for rendering help by way of loan, grant or otherwise to persons affected by the Act who are eligible for the same in accordance with the rules framed by the Government.	None
The fund therefore created under S. 80 of the surplus, if any, is to be utilised for rendering help to persons affected by the Act.	None
That in our opinion clearly means either the landowners whose rights are affected by Chap.	None
II or the persons from whom excess land is taken under Chap.	None
III.	None
The surplus money therefore is to be utilised for the benefit of the persons affected by the Act as indicated above.	None
This Section also provides that the Government will frame rules with respect to the persons affected and their eligibility for help from the fund.	None
Our attention in this connection has been drawn to the eligibility rules framed under this Section for the administration of the fund, and in particular to R. 161 which provides for eligibility for grants and loans.	None
That rule in our opinion goes beyond the scope of S. 80 in so far as it provides for making of grants or loans to persons not affected by the Act.	Reasoning
We may in this connection refer to R. 161(a)(i) and (ii) and R. 161(b)(i) and (ii) which are so framed as to take within their scope even persons not affected by the Act, though R. 161(a)(iii) and R. 161(b)(iii) are with respect to persons who may be affected by the Act.	Reasoning
Rule 161(a)(i) and (ii) and R.161 (b)(i) and (ii) in so far as they take in persons not affected by the Act are ultra vires of the provisions of S. 80 and must be struck down on that ground and may have to be replaced by more suitable rules.	Reasoning
But the rules which have been actually framed will not affect the provisions of S. 80 which clearly show that the fund is for the benefit of those who are affected by the Act, namely, those who are affected by Chapters II and III of the Act, i.e., those landowners whose rights have been acquired under Ss. 41 and 42 and those persons from whom excess land is taken away under S. 62.	Reasoning
Section 80 thus clearly shows that any surplus that may arise is not taken away by the State for its own revenue purposes but is meant to be used for the benefit of those affected by the Act and therefore even the apparent result of the difference between Ss. 45 and 52 and Ss. 64 and 72 is taken away by the constitution of the fund under S. 80, and it cannot be said at all under the circumstances that any device has been employed in the Act to take away the moneys of the landowners or the persons from whom excess land is taken away for the purpose of adding to the revenue of the State.	Reasoning
We are therefore of opinion that the Act cannot be struck down as a colourable piece of legislation which is beyond the competence of the State Legislature.	None
Re.	None
(3).	None
9. Article 31A was inserted in the Constitution by the Constitution (First Amendment) Act 1951, with retrospective effect so that it must be deemed to have been in the Constitution from the very beginning, i.e., January 26, 1950.	None
The Article was further amended by the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955, which was also made retrospective and therefore Art.	None
31A as it stands today must be deemed to have been part of the Constitution right from the start, i.e., January 26, 1950.	None
We are not concerned in the present petitions with cl.	None
(1) of Art.	None
31A, which was extensively amended in 1955 but only with cl.	None
(2).	None
This clause originally read as follows In this article, (a) the expression estate shall, in relation to any local area, have the same meaning as that expression or its local equivalent has in the existing law relating to landtenures in force in that area, and shall also include any jagir, inam or muafi or other similar grant.	None
(b) the expression rights, in relation to an estate, shall include any rights vesting in a proprietor, subproprietor, underproprietor, tenureholder or other intermediary and any rights or privileges in respect of land revenue.	None
In 1955, in subcl.	None
(a) the words and in the States of Madras and TravancoreCochin, any janmam rights were added at the end while in subcl.	None
(b) the words raiyat, underraiyat were added after the word tenureholder and before the words or other intermediary.	None
10.	None
It will be seen therefore that so far as the meaning of the word estate is concerned, there was no change in subcl.	None
(a) and the only change was with respect to the inclusive part of the definition of the word estate .	None
The word estate has all along been defined to have the same meaning in relation to any local area as that expression or its local equivalent has in the existing law relating to landtenures in force in that area.	None
It is also remarkable that the word intermediary does not occur in subcl.	None
(a) though it occurs in subcl.	None
(b).	None
The definition in subcl.	None
(a) is selfcontained and there is no scope for importing any idea of intermediary in the definition from subcl.	None
(b).	None
The reason why the words other intermediary are used in subcl.	None
(b) which defines rights in relation to an estate, is that that subclause mentions a number of intermediaries as such, like subproprietors, underproprietors, tenureholders but does not give a complete enumeration of all intermediaries that may be existing in estates all over India and therefore uses the words other intermediary to bring in all kinds of intermediaries existing in an estate.	None
As an example we may mention that formerly in Uttar Pradesh there were fixed rate tenants in the permanently settled districts who were also intermediaries and it is such persons or their likes who were brought in within the sweep of the definition of rights in relation to an estate by the use of the words other intermediary.	None
Therefore, when the words raiyat, underraiyat were added in subcl.	None
(b) in 1955, it was further enumeration within a class already there further as held in State of Bihar v. Rameshwar Pratap Narain Singh, AIR 1961 SC 1649 their inclusion in the circumstances and in the particular setting showed that the words or other intermediary did not necessarily qualify or colour the meaning to be attached to these new tenures.	None
The meaning of the word estate has however to be found in subcl.	None
(a) and it is the words used in that subclause only which will determine its meaning irrespective of whether any intermediary existed in an estate or not.	None
The meaning of the word estate in subcl.	None
(a) is the same as it might be in the existing law relating to landtenure in force in a particular area.	None
Where therefore them is an existing law in a particular area in which the word estate as such is defined the word would have that meaning for that area and there is no necessity then for looking for its local equivalent.	None
But if in the existing law of a particular area the word estate as such is not defined, but there is a definition of some other term which in that area is the local equivalent, of the word estate then the word estate would have the meaning assigned to that term in the existing law in that area.	None
In order, however, that one may be able to say that a particular term in an existing law in a particular area is a local equivalent of the word estate used in subcl.	None
(a) it is necessary to have some basic idea of the meaning of the word estate for that purpose.	None
That basic idea seems to be that the person holding the estate should be the proprietor of the soil and should be in direct relationship with the State paying land revenue to it, when it is not remitted in whole or in part.	None
If a term therefore is defined in any existing law in a local area which corresponds to this basic idea of an estate that term would be a local equivalent of the word estate in that area.	None
It is unnecessary to pursue the matter further because this aspect of the case has also been considered in Writ petition No. 105 of 1961 (SC).	None
See AIR 1962 SC 694 .	None
11.	None
It may be added that as the definition of the word estate came into the Constitution from January 26, 1950, and is based on existing law we have to look into law existing on January 26, 1950, for the purpose of finding out the meaning of the word estate in Art.	None
31A. 12.	None
Let us therefore look at the state of the law as it was in the State of Madras on January 26, 1950, for the area from which these petitions come was then in the district of South Canara, which was then a part of the Province of Madras, which became the State of Madras on January 26, 1950.The usual feature of landtenure in Madras was the ryotwari form but in some districts, a landlord class had grown up both in the northern and southern parts of the Presidency of Madras as it was before the Constitution.	None
The permanent settlement was introduced in apart of the Madras Presidency in 1802.	None
There were also various tenures arising out of revenue free grants all over the Province (see Chap IV, Vol.	None
III of Land Systems of British India by Baden Powell) and sometimes in some districts both kinds of tenures, namely, landlord tenures and the ryotwari tenures were prevalent.	None
There were various Acts in force in the Presidency of Madras with respect to landlord tenures while ryotwari tenures were governed by the Standing Orders of the Board of Revenue.	None
Eventually, in 1908, the Madras legislature passed the Madras Estates Land Act, No. 1 of 1908, which was later amended from time to time, it contains a definition of the word estate as such in S. 3(2) and when the Constitution came into force the relevant part of the definition was as follows Estates means  (a) any permanently settled estate or temporarily settled zamindari (b) any portion of such permanently settled estate or temporarily settled zamindari which is separately registered in the office of the Collector (c) any unsettled palaiyam or jagir (d) any inam village of which the grant has been made, confirmed or recognised by the British Government notwithstanding that subsequent to the grant, the village has been partitioned among the grantees or the successorsintitle of the grantee or grantees.	None
This Act applied to the entire Presidency of Madras except the Presidency town of Madras, the district of Malabar and the portion of the Nilgiri district known as South East Wynaad.	None
It thus applied to the district of South Canara from where these petitions come.	None
So far therefore as the District of South Canara was concerned there was an existing law which defined the word estate for that local area.	None
Shortly before the Constitution came into force the Madras legislature had passed the Madras Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act.	None
No. XXVI of 1948.	None
That Act provided for the abolition of estates subject to certain restrictions with which we are not concerned.	None
It also provided for repeal of the Madras Permanent Settlement Regulation, 1802, and the Estates Land Act of 1908 to the extent and from the date on which notifications were made under S. 3 of that Act.	None
There was thus no repeal of Act I of 1908 by the Act of 1948, and it is not in dispute that Act No. 1 of 1908 was in force on January 26, 1950, in large parts of the Province of Madras including South Canara, and is still in force in such parts of it as have not been notified under S. 3 of the Act of 1948.	None
Therefore, we reach the position that when Art. 31 became applicable from January 26, 1950, Act No. 1 of 1908 was still in force in large parts of the Madras State and it contained a definition of the word estate as such.	None
Further, Act 1 of 1908 was clearly a law of landtenures as a brief review of its provisions will show.	None
Section 6 of the Act conferred occupancy rights on tenants of certain lands in estates as defined in the Act of 1908.Chapter II dealt with the general rights of landlords and tenants.	None
Chapter III dealt with provisions relating to rate of rent payable by tenants and provided for enhancement, deduction, commutation, alteration and remission of rent.	None
Chapter IV dealt with pattas and muchilikas.	None
Chapter V provided for payment of rent and for realisation of arrears of rent.	None
Chapter VI provided the procedure for recovery of rent.	None
Other Chapters dealt with other matters including Chap.	None
X which dealt with relinquishment and ejectment.	None
It is clear therefore that the Act of 1908 was a law relating to landtenures.	None
Therefore, we reach the position that in a law relating to landtenures which was in force in the State of Madras when the Constitution came into force the word estate was specifically defined.	None
This law was in force in the whole of the State of Madras except some parts and was thus in force in the area from which the present petitions come.	None
This area was then in the South Canara district of the State of Madras.	None
We are therefore of opinion that the word estate in the circumstances can only have the meaning given to it in the Act of 1908 as amended up to 1950 in the State of Madras as it was on the date the Constitution came into force.	None
13.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have already said that the Act of 1908 dealt with landlord tenures of Madras and was an existing law relating to landtenures.	None
The otherclass of landtennures consisted of ryotwari pattadars which were governed by the Boards Standing Orders, there being no Act of the legislature with respect to them.	None
The holders of ryotwari pattas used to hold lands on lease from Government.	None
The basic idea of ryotwari settlement is that every bit of land is assessed to a certain revenue and assigned a survey number for a period of years, which is usually thirty and each occupant of such land holds it subject to his paying the landrevenue fixed on that land.	None
But it is open to the occupant to relinquish his land or to take new land which has been relinquished by some other occupant or become otherwise available on payment of assessment, (see Land Systems of British India by BadenPowell, Vol. III, Chap.	None
IV S. II, p. 128).	None
Though, theoretically, according to some authorities, the occupant of ryotwari land held it under an annual lease see Macleane, Vol.	None
I Revenue Settlement, p. 104), it appears that in fact the Collector had no power to terminate the tenants holding for any cause whatever except failure to pay the revenue or the ryots own relinquishment or abandonment.	None
The ryot is generally called a tenant of Government but he is not a tenant from year to year and cannot be ousted as long as he pays the landrevenue assessed.	None
He has also the right to sell or mortgage or gift the land or lease it and the transferee becomes liable in his place for the revenue.	None
Further, the lessee of a ryotwari pattadar has no rights except those conferred under the lease and is generally a subtenant at will liable to ejectment at the end of each year.	None
In the Manual of Administration, as quoted by Baden Powell, in Vol. III of Land Systems of British India at p. 129, the ryotwari tenure is summarised as thatof a tenant of the State enjoying a tenantright which can be inherited, sold, or burdened for debt in precisely the same manner as a proprietary right, subject always to payment of the revenue due to the State.	None
Though therefore the ryotwari pattadar is virtually like a proprietor and has many of the advantages of such a proprietor, be could still relinquish or abandon his land in favour of the Government.	None
It is because of this position that the ryotwari pattadar was never considered a proprietor of the land under his patta, though he had many of the advantages of a proprietor.	None
Considering, however, that the Act of 1908 was in force all over the State of Madras but did not apply to lands held on ryotwari settlement and contained a definition of the word estate which was also applicable throughout the State of Madras except the areas indicated above, it is clear that in the existing law relating to landtenures the word estate did not include the lands of ryotwari pattadars, however valuable might be their rights in lands as they eventually came to be recognised.	Reasoning
14.	Arguments of Petitioner
Turning now to the district of South Canara and the areas from which the present petitions come it appears that originally the ryotwari settlement was not in force in this area and two kinds of tenures were recognised, namely, mulawargdar and Sarkari geniwargdar.	None
It is, however, unnecessary to go into the past history of the matter, for it is not in dispute that the ryotwari system was introduced in South Canara district in the early years of this century.	None
The history will be found in the book Land Tenures in the Madras Presidency by S. Sunderaraja Iyengar, II Edn., pp. 4547, where it is said that after the introduction of the ryotwari system into South Canara, no distinction now exists between the wargadar, the mulawargadar and Kudutaledar and they are all ryotwari pattadars.	None
Therefore, when the Constitution came into force the ryotwari pattadars of South Canara were in the same position as the ryotwari pattadars of the rest of the State of Madras.	None
Further, as the Act of 1908 was in force in South Canara also, though there may not be many estates as defined in that Act in this area it follows that in this area also the word estate would have the same meaning as in the Act of 1908 and therefore ryotwari pattadars and their lands would not be covered by the word estate.	Reasoning
Further, there can be no question of seeking for a local equivalent so far as this part of the State of Kerala which has come to it from the former State of Madras is concerned.	Reasoning
We are therefore of opinion that lands held by ryotwari pattadars in this part which his come to the State of Kerala by virtue of the States Reorganisation Act from the State of Madras are not estates within the meaning of Art. 31A(2) (a) of the Constitution and therefore the Act is not protected under Art.	Reasoning
31A (1) from attack under Arts.	Reasoning
14, 19 and 31of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Re.	None
(4).	None
15.	Arguments of Petitioner
The next contention on behalf of the petitioners is that the Act makes a discrimination between area and pepper plantations on the one hand and certain other plantations on the other and should therefore be struck down as violative of Art.	None
14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 2 (39) of the Act defines plantation to mean any land used by a person principally for the cultivation of tea, coffee, rubber or cardamom or such other kind of special crops as may be specified by the Government by notification in the gazette.	Arguments of Petitioner
Areca and pepper plantations have however not been included in this definition.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged on behalf of the petitioners that in this part of the State there are a large number of areca and pepper plantations which are practically run on the same lines as tea, coffee and rubber plantations and there is no reason why discrimination should be made between areca and pepper plantations on the one hand and tea, coffee and rubber plantations on the other.	Arguments of Petitioner
The discrimination is said to arise from the provisions of S. 3 and S. 57 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 3 (viii) which occurs in Chap.	Arguments of Petitioner
II dealing with the acquisition of the interest of landowners by tenants excepts tenancies in respect of plantations exceeding thirty acres in extent from the application of that chapter.	Arguments of Petitioner
The result of this is that tenants in plantations exceeding thirty acres in extent cannot acquire the interest of the landowners with respect to such plantations and the landowners continue to own such plantations as before.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further S. 57 which is in Chap.	Arguments of Petitioner
III provides for exemption of all plantations whatever their extent from the provisions of that Chapter.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus the ceiling area provided in S. 58 will not apply to plantations which will be left out in calculating the ceiling area for the purpose of S. 58.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, S. 59(2) provides that in calculating the ceiling area any cashew estate if it was a cashew estate on April 11, 1957, and continued as such at the commencement of S. 59 (provided the cashew estate was principally planted with cashewnut trees and be a contiguous area not below 10 acres) will continue to be owned or held as before, though the ceiling in such cases would be reduced to half of that provided in S. 58.	Arguments of Petitioner
These provisions inter alia confer benefits on those who hold plantations as defined in S. 2(39) and also on those who have cashew estates as defined in the Explanation to S. 59(2).The contention on behalf of the petitioners is that there is no reason why the same benefits which have been conferred on plantations as defined in the Act should not be conferred on those who hold areca and pepper plantations, and that there are no intelligible differentia which would justify the State legislature in treating the pepper and areca plantations differently from rubber, tea and coffee plantations.16.	Arguments of Petitioner
Article 14 has been the subject of consideration by this Court on a number of occasions and the principles which govern its application have been summarised in Ram Krishna Dalmia v. Justice S. R. Tendolkar, 1959 SCR 279 at p. 297 (AIR 1958 SC 538 at pp. 547548) in these words (a) that a law may be constitutional even though it relates to a single individual if, on account of some special circumstances or reasons applicable to him and not applicable to others, that single individual maybe treated as a class by himself (b) that there is always a presumption in favour of the constitutionality of an enactment and the burden is upon him who attacks it to show that there has been a clear transgression of the constitutional principles (c) that it must be presumed that the legislature understands and correctly appreciates the need of its own people, that its laws are directed to problems made manifest by experience and that its discriminations are based on adequate grounds (d) that the legislature is free to recognise degrees of harm and may confine its restrictions to those cases where the need is deemed to be the clearest (e) that in order to sustain the presumption of constitutionality the court may take into consideration matters of common knowledge, matters of common report, the history of the times and may assume every state of facts which can be conceived existing at the time of legislation and (f) that while good faith and knowledge of the existing conditions on the part of a legislature are to be presumed, if there is nothing on the face of the law or the surrounding circumstances brought to the notice of the court on which the classification may reasonably be regarded as based, the presumption of constitutionality cannot be carried to the extent of always holding that there must be some undisclosed and unknown reasons for subjecting certain individuals or corporations to hostile or discriminating legislation.	None
The petitioners rely on cl.	None
(f) of this summary and their contention is that there is nothing to show either in the Act or even in the affidavit filed on behalf of the State in reply to the petitions or in the circumstances brought to the notice of the court that the classification in this case which excludes areca and pepper plantations and includes tea, coffee and rubber plantations is a proper classification based on intelligible differentia which are related to the objects and purposes of the Act.17.	None
This brings us to a consideration of the reasons which may have impelled the legislature to treat plantations as a class differently from other lands.	None
The objective of land reform including the imposition of ceilings on land holdings is to remove all impediments which arise from the agrarian structure inherited from the past in order to increase agricultural production, and to create conditions for evolving as speedily as possible an agrarian economy with a high level of efficiency and productivity (see p. 178 of the Second Five Year Plan).	None
It is with this object in view that ceiling on landholdings has been imposed in various States.	None
Even so, it is recognised that some exemptions will have to be granted from the ceiling in order that production may not suffer.	None
This was considered in the Second Five Year Plan at p. 196 and three main factors were taken into account in deciding upon exemptions from the ceiling, namely  (1) integrated nature of operations, especially where industrial and agricultural work are undertaken as a composite enterprise, (2) specialised character of operations, and (3) from the aspect of agricultural production the need to ensure that efficiently managed farms which fulfil certain conditions are not broken up.	None
Bearing these criteria in mind it was recommended in the Second Five Year Plan (see p. 196) that the following categories of farms may be exempted from the operation of ceiling, namely (1) tea, coffee and rubber plantations (2) orchards where they constitute reasonably compact areas (3) specialised farms engaged in cattle breeding, dairying, wool raising etc (4) sugarcane farms operated by sugar factories, and (5) efficiently managed farms which consist of compact blocks, on which heavy investment or permanent structural improvements have been made and whose breakup is likely to lead to a fall in production.	None
The same view has been reiterated in Chap.	None
XIV of the Third Five Year Plan dealing with Land Reform and ceiling on agricultural holdings and para.	None
28 thereof refers to the grounds of exemption envisaged by the Second Five Year Plan.	None
It is obvious therefore that when the State legislature in this case exempted tea, coffee, rubber and cardamom plantations from the ceiling under Chap.	None
III and treated plantations of over 30 acres as a special case for the purpose of Chap.	None
II, it must have had the principles enunciated above in mind to differentiate them from ordinary cultivation of other crops.	None
If that be so, the question immediately arises whether there is any reason for treating areca and pepper plantations differently.	None
If there is none and areca and pepper plantations stand so far as these conditions are concerned on the same footing as tea, coffee and rubber plantations there will clearly be a discrimination against them by the provisions of the Act referred to above.	None
18.	None
Turning now to pepper plantations, first, we may refer to the information contained in Farm Bulletin No. 55 relating to pepper cultivation in India issued by the Farm Information Unit, Directorate of Extension, Ministry of Food and Agriculture New Delhi in September 1959.	None
It appears from this bulletin that Kerala is the most important pepper producing State in India, where pepper is cultivated on an organised plantation scale over fairly extensive areas.	None
There are three distinct regions of the pepper growing belt, namely, (1) The Travancore and Cochin region, 2.	None
The Malabar and South Canara region, and (3) the Coorg and North Canara region.	None
Though pepper is essentially a homestead garden crop, growers were encouraged to grow it on plantation scale since 1928 when the price of pepper rose to about Rs. 700/ per candy.	None
Since then there has been a further rise in the price of pepper with the result that new homestead gardens and plantations have sprung up and pepper cultivation has extended a good deal.	None
During the last fifty years, pepper which was largely a household garden crop has emerged as a plantation crop and fairly large seized plantations of pepper exist in the submontane eastern parts of North Malabar and the Hosdrug taluk of South Canara, (the area from which these petitions come).	None
In Hosdrug taluk in particular pepper is grown mostly on large scale plantations and it is here that the finest and the best organised pepper plantations in India exist.	None
Some of the largest plantations among them have an area of a 100 to 150 acres.	None
Pepper vines commence yielding usually from the third year, the yield increasing gradually until the vines come to full bearing in about ten years.	None
The economic life of a vine varies from place to place.	None
From the tenth to the 25th year, the vines are in full bearing, and the yield begins to decline after the 30th year.	None
The initial outlay on pepper plantations is heavy and the pepper crop requires continuous attention and care.	None
The total area under pepper is over 2 lakhs acres out of which about 20,000 acres are under pure pepper plantations.	None
The initial expenditure on laying out a pepper plantation can be recovered only after several years and the best organised and most extensive pepper plantations of India are in the Hosdrug taluk, South Canara (from where these petitions come) and North Malabar.	None
19.	None
This information taken from Farm Bulletin 55 shows that in the last fifty years pepper in India has reached the plantation stage and in particular in Hosdrug taluk from where these petitions come there are the best organized and most extensive pepper plantations in India.	None
The initial cost of laying out a pepper plantation is heavy and the pepper vines yield nothing for three years and full production comes only in the tenth year.	None
Therefore where pepper is cultivated as a plantation crop on a large scale the cost is heavy and may be comparable to the outlay on large scale tea, coffee and rubber plantations.	None
It is in these circumstances that we have to consider whether there has been discrimination against pepper plantations when they have not been included in the definition of plantation under S. 2 (39) of the Act.	None
20.	None
Turning to arecanut, reference may be made to Farm Bulletin No. 14 issued by the same authority.	None
The major arecanut growing belt in India is again the same regions, i.e., South Canara, Malabar, Coorg and Travancore Cochin along with parts of Mysore, Bengal and Assam.	None
Arecanut is also grown on plantation scale.	None
Since the crop begins to bear fruit after about eight years, large sums have to be expended up to the bearing stage without any income till then.	None
The estimated life of an arecanut garden is about 50 to 60 years, though some of the palms in the garden will be dying occasionally or becoming uneconomic and it will be necessary to replace them.	None
For this reason under planting is taken periodically.	None
It appears further from the proceedings of the Ninth Anuual General Special and Twelfth Ordinary Meetings of the Indian Central Arecanut Committee held on January 23, 1958, that the question whether arecanut gardens should be put under ceiling or not and whether there would be hampering of production which would be against national interest if a ceiling were imposed on such gardens had been referred to a Subcommittee for consideration.	None
The Subcommittee reported that if area gardens were brought under the ceiling it would hamper production which would be against the national interest and recommended to the planning Commission, the Central Government and the State Governments that, as proposed by the Planning Commission in respect of tea, coffee and rubber plantations, orchards, specialised farms and efficiently managed farms, arecanut gardens be also similarly exempted from ceiling.	None
The Subcommittee also noticed that arecanut cultivation involed heavy capital outlay in establishing, maintaing and protecting the areant trees.	None
This recommendation of the Subcommitted came up for consideration before the Indian Central Arecanut Committee on January 23, l958 and as accepted.	None
Thus these proceedings show that fixation of ceiling on arecanut gardens would hamper production which would be detrimental to national economy.	None
It is in this background therefore that we have to consider whether.	None
the noninclusion of areca and pepper plantations in the definition in S. 2(39) with the result that areca and pepper plantations do not enjoy similar benefits as others, is discriminatory.	None
21.	None
From what we have said above it has not been shown that there is any appreciable difference between the economics of tea, coffee and rubber plantations and areca and pepper plantations.	None
It is true that plantations in areca and pepper are not so widespread as tea, coffee and rubber plantations but it is equally true that in this particular area from which these petitions come areca and pepper plantations are very common.	None
The fact however that areca and pepper plantations are very common only in this area of the State of Kerala is no reason for treating them differently from tea, coffee and rubber plantations which are apparently more evenly distributed throughout the State.	None
If the criteria evolved by the Planning Commission, as already indicated, apply to tea, coffee and rubber plantations in our opinion they equally apply to areca and pepper plantations and there is no reason for differentiating between these two sets of plantations.	None
So far as areca is concerned we have the recommendation of the Subcommittee, mentioned above, endorsed by the Indian Central Arecanut Committee, that it would be detrimental to national economy not to extend the benefit of exemption from ceiling to arecanut plantations in the same way as is done in the case of tea, coffee and rubber plantations.	None
As for pepper we have it from Farm Bulletin No. 55 that the best organised and most extensive pepper plantations of India are in Hosdrug Taluk it South Canara and that some of them are even as large as 100 to 150 acres each.	None
The result of the application of the celling and other provisions of the Act would mean the breakup of these plantations and may result in fall in production.	None
It is to avoid the breakup of tea, coffee and rubber plantations and the consequent fall in production that ceiling has not been imposed on these plantations.	None
The same reasons in our opinion lead to the conclusion that pepper plantations should also be treated similarly.	None
In this connection reference may be made to the opinion expressed in Farm Bulletin No. 55 where the author has said that it is impossible to keep a large plantation of pepper in good tiptop condition, without incurring heavy expenditure and without great efforts and has added that in the existing conditions no one planter should have more than 10 acres of pepper plantation.	None
22.	None
This would seem to suggest that 10 acres is the economic optimum limit for pepper plantations.	None
It is not clear however on what basis this recommendation is based, for undoubtedly the bulletin shows that there are plantations of much larger extent in this area and the plantations here are the best organised and the most extensive throughout the whole of India.	None
The only reason which seems to have been given in support of the opinion that 10 acres is the optimum area for a pepper plantation is that one planter in that region was of the view that unless the price of one candy of pepper remained at a high level of anything between Rs. 1,500/ and Rs.	None
2,000/ it will be impracticable and unprofitable to maintain large scale plantations of pepper in these regions, and if prices go down far below this level, large scale pepper plantations may have even to be abandoned.	None
This does not afford a sufficient basis for holding that 10 acres is the optimum holding for a pepper plantation.	None
In the first place, it is mentioned at p. 8 of the bulletin that pepper began to be grown on plantation scale when the price rose to about Rs. 700/ per candy in 1928.	None
Therefore even if the price falls below Rs. 1,500/  to Rs. 2,000/ per candy there is no reason why pepper cultivation on a plantation scale should become impracticable, particularly as it is unlikely that the cost of only pepper will fall and not all other commodities.	None
At p. 72 the bulletin mentions that the cost of cultivation of pepper can be brought down only if the general price level is brought down substantially.	None
Now there is no reason to suppose that there would be a catastrophic fall in the price level of pepper only which would make all pepper plantations above 10 acres uneconomic and unprofitable.	None
In any case this is not the reason urged on behalf of the State in support of not including pepper plantations in the definition of plantation.	None
In this connection we ought to add that the counter affidavit filed by the respondent is very unsatisfactory no serious attempt has been made at all to justify the exclusion of pepper and arecanut from the exemption granted to tea, coffee, rubber and cardamom no facts are stated and no data supplied in reply to the detailed allegations made in the petitions challenging the validity of the classification in question.	None
The only reason given by the State in the counter affidavit is that a plantation crop is generally understood to refer only to tea, coffee and rubber and cardamom.	None
It is not quite clear what exactly is meant by this one sentence in the counter affidavit in support of the definition.	None
23.	None
If a plantation crop is generally understood to refer to only tea, coffee, rubber and cardamom, it is not understood why the definition provides for extending the word plantation to other crops by notification.	None
The very fact that power has been reserved for extending the definition by notification to other crops shows that other crops can also be grown on plantation scale in view therefore of what we have said above with respect to the economics of areca and pepper cultivation, it is obvious that no sufficient reason has been shown for differentiating areca and pepper plantations in this area from tea, coffee and rubber plantations in the State.	None
Making all the presumptions in favour of the classification made under S. 2(39) it is clear that there is nothing on the face of the law or the surrounding circumstances which has been brought to our notice in this case on which the classification contained in S. 2(39) can be said to be reasonably based.	Reasoning
Considering the object and purpose of the Act and the basis on which exemption has been granted under Chapters II and III to plantations as defined in the Act, there appears to be no reason for making any distinction between tea coffee and rubber on the one hand and areca and pepper on the other in this particular case.	Reasoning
It is not as if tea, coffee and rubber are grown only on a large scale while areca and pepper are mostly grown on a small scale.	Reasoning
We find from the report of the Plantation Inquiry Commission, 1956, that small holdings exist in tea, coffee and rubber plantations also and are in fact the majority of such plantations.	Reasoning
For example, in the report of the Plantation Inquiry Commission relating to coffee at pp. 9 and 14 we find that out of the total number of registered estates more than 4,500 are between 5 acres and 25 acres while only about 2,200 estates are above 25 acres.	Reasoning
Further there are more than 24,000 estates below 5 acres.	Reasoning
Similary at p. 97, Chap.	Reasoning
XI, Part III of the Report dealing with rubber, out of the total of over 26,700 rubber estates, 23,300 are up to 5 acres, 1,900 up to 10 acres and only about 1,500 above 10 acres.	Reasoning
So it appears that the large majority of plantations whether they be of coffee or rubber are below 10 acres and that is also the case with areca and pepper plantations.	Reasoning
Thus there in no reason for giving preference to plantations of tea, coffee and rubber over plantations of areca and pepper for the conditions in the two sets of plantations whether for the purpose of ceiling under Chap.	Reasoning
III or for the purpose of acquisition of landowners rights under Chap.	Reasoning
II are the same.	Reasoning
The reason therefore which calls for exemption of tea, coffee and rubber plantations equally apply to areca and pepper plantations and there is no intelligible differentia related to the object and purpose of the Act which would justify any distinction in the case of tea, coffee and rubber plantations as against areca and pepper plantations.	Reasoning
We are therefore of opinion that the provisions relating to plantations are violative of Art.	Reasoning
14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
24.	None
The next question is whether these provisions are severable, that is to say, whether the Kerala legislature would have passed the Act without these provisions.	None
That depends upon the intention of the legislature and as far as we can judge, that intention from the provisions of the Act, it seems clear to us that the legislature did not intend that the provisions relating to acquisition by tenants and ceilings should apply to plantations as defined in the Act so that they may have to be brokenup with consequent loss of production and detriment to national economy.	None
It seems that the legislature could not have intended in order to carry out the purpose of the legislation to do so even after breakingup all the plantations which existed in the State.	None
It follows therefore that the legislature would not have passed the rest of the Act without the provisions relating to plantations.	None
As these provisions affect the entire working out of Chapters II and III of the Act which are the main provisions thereof, it follows that these provisions relating to plantations cannot be severed from the Act and struck down only by themselves.	None
Therefore, the whole Act must be struck down as violative of Art.	None
14 of the Constitution so far as it applies to ryotwari lands in those areas of the State which were transferred to it from the State of Madras, and we order accordingly.	None
Re.	None
(5).	None
25.	None
Then we come to the attack that the Act is violative of Art.	None
14 on account of the manner in which ceiling has been fixed under S. 58 thereof.	None
Section 2 (12) defines a family as meaning husband, wife and their unmarried minor children or such of them as exist.	None
There are three kinds of families existing in the State, namely, the joint Hindu family, Marumakhathayam family and Aliyasanthana family, the latter two being matriarchal.	None
In the matriarchal family, the husband and wife are not members of the same family but belong to different families.	None
The joint Hindu family does not merely consist of the husband, wife and unmarried minor children it consists at least of the husband, wife and all the children whether married or unmarried and whether minor or adult.	None
The definition of family therefore in the Act is an artificial one which does not conform to any of the three kinds of families prevalent in the State.	None
26.	None
Turning now to S. 58, the ceiling has been fixed in two ways.	None
The first is by reference to a family as defined in the Act of not more than five members which is allowed 15 acres of double crop nilam or its equivalent with an addition of one acre of double crop nilam or its equivalent for each member in excess of five, so however that the total extent of the land shall not exceed 25 acres of double crop nilam or its equivalent.	None
The second is by reference to an adult unmarried person who is allowed 7 1/2 acres of double crop nilam or its equivalent.	None
It has been urged on behalf of the State that the provisions as they stand do not make any discrimination whatsoever for there is the same provisions for all adult unmarried persons and the same for all families as defined in the Act.	None
This in our opinion is an oversimplification of the provision relating to ceiling under S. 58.	None
On an argument of this kind no provision would ever be discriminatory for it is unlikely that a provision would on the face of it make a discrimination.	None
The discriminatory nature of the provision has to be judged from the results that follow from it and we have no doubt that the results which follow from this double provision as to ceiling are bound to be discriminatory.	Reasoning
If the ceiling had been fixed with respect to one standard whether it be of an individual person or of a natural family by which we mean a family recognised in personal law, the results may not have been discriminatory.	Reasoning
But where the ceiling is fixed as in the present case by a double standard and over and above that the family has been given an artificial definition which does not correspond with a natural family as known to personal law, there is bound to be discrimination resulting from such a provision.	None
27.	None
A simple illustration will explain how the results of the manner in which the ceiling has been fixed by S. 58 will lead to clear discrimination between person and person.	None
Take the case of an adult unmarried person and a minor who is an orphan with no father, mother, brother or sister.	None
Assume further that each owns 25 acres of land under personal cultivation.	None
The former who is an adult unmarried person will retain 7 1/2 acres and will have to surrender 17 12 acres as excess land.	None
The latter will be an artificial family under the definition of that word in S. 2(12).	None
This follows from the fact that a family consists of husband, wife and their unmarried minor children or such of them as exist.	None
This is also made clear by S. 61(2) which shows that even a minor who has no parents, and no brothers or sisters will constitute a family under S. 2(12).	None
This minor therefore as constituting a family will be entitled to 15 acres of land and will have to surrender only 10 acres as excess land.	None
No justification has been shown to us on behalf of the State for this discriminatory treatment of two individual persons nor are we able to understand why such discrimination which clearly results from the application of the provisions of S. 58(1) is not violative of Art.	None
14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Examples can be multiplied with reference to joint Hindu families also, which would show that in many cases discrimination will result on the application of these provisions to joint Hindu families.	Reasoning
Similar would in our opinion be the case with Marumakhathayam and Aliyasanthana families where as we have already pointed out the husband and wife do not belong to the same family as known to personal law.	Reasoning
Discrimination therefore is writ large on the consequences that follow from the provisions of S. 58 (1).	Reasoning
We are therefore of opinion that S. 58 (1) is violative of the fundamental right enshrined in Art.14 as that Section is the basis of entire Chap.	Reasoning
III the whole Chapter must fall with it.	Reasoning
This would be an additional reason why Chap.	Reasoning
III should be struck down as violative of Art.	Reasoning
14 in its application to ryotwari lands which have come to the State of Kerala from the State of Madras.	Reasoning
Re.(6) 28.	None
It is contended that the manner in which the compensation is cut down progressively in Ss. 52 and 64 of the Act is violative of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
14.	Arguments of Petitioner
The compensation payable under S. 52 is determined in this manner.	None
First the purchase price is arrived at under S. 45.	None
Thereafter S. 52(2)(b) provides that the landowner or the intermediary, except in the case of religious, charitable and educational institution of a public nature, would be entitled to compensation.	None
The compensation would consist of (1) the value of structures, wells and embankments of a permanent nature situated in the land and belonging to the landowner or the intermediary, as the case may be, and (2) the percentage of the value of interest of the landowner or the intermediary in respect of the land and the improvements other than those falling under subcl.	None
(i) according to the scales specified in Sch. II.	None
Schedule II then provides that the first Rs. 15,000/ of the compensation will be paid in full.	None
Thereafter there will be a reduction of 5 per cent, in each slab of Rs. 10,000/ till we reach compensation above Rs. 1,45,000/.	None
Thereafter the compensation arrived at under S. 52 read with S. 45 is reduced by 70 per cent.	None
so that the landowner or the intermediary gets only 30 per cent, of what has been arrived at under S. 52(2)(b) read with S. 45.	None
29.	None
Similarly in S. 64 the compensation payable for excess land surrendered is (i) the full value of any structures, wells and embankments of a permanent nature situate in the land and belonging to the person who surrenders such land, and (ii) the percentage of the market value of the land and improvements other than those specified above.	None
Here again on the first Rs. 15,000/ compensation at 60 per cent is to be paid.	None
Thereafter the compensation is reduced by 5 per cent.	None
for each slab of Rs. 15,000/ till we reach over Rs. 1,73,000/ when the compensation is reduced by 75 per cent.	None
30.	None
The contention on behalf of the petitioners is that there is no intelligible differentia on which the purchase price determined under S. 15 or the market value is to be reduced by different percentages depending on the total purchase price or the total market value of the interest to be acquired.	Arguments of Petitioner
The reply on behalf of the State is that there is really no discrimination inasmuch as the same percentage is reduced where the compensation payable to different persons is the same.	None
That is undoubtedly so.	None
But that alone is not in our opinion the end of the matter.	None
The question which is posed for our consideration is why a person in whose case the purchase price or the market value is Rs. 15,000/ should get the full purchase price or suffer a reduction in the market value at a certain rate while another person in whose case compensation is more than Rs. 15,000/ should suffer reductions at a different rate which reductions become progressively higher as the purchase price or the market value increases.	None
We could understand once the purchase price or the market value had been determined a uniform cut therefrom for all persons entitled to compensation.	None
That would then raise the question of adequacy of compensation and unless the cut was so large as to make the compensation illusory the cut may be protected by Art. 31(2).	None
But in the present case there is not a uniform cut on the purchase price or the market value for all persons, the cut is higher as the purchase price or the market value gets bigger and bigger after the first slab of Rs. 15,000/.	Reasoning
This difference in cut is being justified on behalf of the State on the same principle on which (for example) the slab system exists for purposes of incometax.	Reasoning
We are however of opinion that there is no comparison between the slab system of incometax rates and the present cuts.	Reasoning
Taxation is a compulsory levy from each individual for the purpose of the maintenance of the State.	Reasoning
We may therefore reasonably expect that a rich man may be required to make a contribution which may be higher than what may be proportionately due from his income for that purpose as compared to a poor man.	Reasoning
31.	None
This principle cannot be applied in a case where a person is deprived of his property under the power of eminent domain for which he is entitled to compensation.	Reasoning
There is no reason why when two persons are deprived of their property one richer than the other, they should be paid at different rates when the property of which they are deprived is of the same kind and differs only in extent.	Reasoning
No such principle can be applied in a case where compensation is being granted to a person for deprivation of his property.	Reasoning
Where one person owns property valued at Rs. 15,000/ while another owns property valued at Rs. 30,000/, both are equally deprived of the property.	Reasoning
When therefore it comes to a question of payment of compensation we can see no reason why a person whose compensation amounts to Rs. 1,500/ should get the whole of it or a large part of it while another person whose compensation amounts to (say) Rs. 30,000/ should get something less than the first person.	Reasoning
It is not as if there is some difference in the nature of the property which might justify different payments of compensation.	Reasoning
What the Act provides is to work out the purchase price or the market value first for the purpose of determining compensation land then make different cuts from the purchase price or the market value according in whether in one case the purchase price or the market value is Rs. 15000/ and in another case it is more than Rs. 15,000/.No justification is pointed out for this discrimination except the principle on which the slab system for the purpose of incometax is justified.	Reasoning
That principle as we have just pointed out does not apply to a case of compensation.	None
32.	None
Nor are we able to see any rational classification which would justify different cuts based simply on the amount of compensation worked out on the basis of purchase price or market value.	None
The only thing we can see is that because a person is possibly richer he must be paid less for the same type of land while a person who is poorer must he paid more.	Reasoning
This kind of discrimination in the payment of compensation cannot in our opinion be possibly justified on the objects and purposes of the Act.	Reasoning
The object and purpose of the Act as we have already said, is to grant rights to cultivating tenants so that they may improve their lands resulting in larger production to the benefit of the national economy.	Reasoning
Secondly, the object of the Act is to provide land for the landless and to those who may have little land by taking excess land from those who have large tracts of lands so that peasant proprietorship may increase with consequent increase in production due to greater interest of the cultivator in the soil.	Reasoning
But these objects have no rational relation which would justify the making of different cuts from the purchase price or the market value for the purpose of giving compensation to those whose interests are being acquired under the Act.	Reasoning
We can therefore see no justification for giving different compensation based on different cuts from the purchase price or the market value as provided in Ss. 52 and 64 of the Act.	None
33.	None
We may in this connection refer to Kameshwar Singh v. State of Bihar, AIR 1951 Pat 91 (SB) in which a similar question with respect to compensation provided in the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950, came up for consideration.	None
There the Act provided compensation at different rates depending upon the net income.	None
The landowner having the smallest net income below Rs. 500/ was to get twenty times the net income as compensation while the landowner having the largest net income, i.e., above 1,00,000  was to get only three times of the net income.	None
Intermediate slabs provided different multiples for different amounts of net income.	None
That provision was struck down by the Special Bench of the Patna High Court as violative of Art.	None
14.	Arguments of Petitioner
It may be mentioned that that decision was given before the Constitution (First Amendment) Act adding Art.	None
31A and the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution was passed.	None
Three learned Judges composing the Special Bench who heard that case were unanimously of the opinion that such difference in payment was violative of Art.	None
14 and that the principle of progressive taxation did not apply to compensation for land acquired.	None
We are of opinion that the view taken in that case is correct and the same applies to the present case.	None
We may point out that that case came in appeal to this Court (see State of Bihar v. Kameshwar Singh, 1952	None
SCR 889 (AIR 1952 SC 252 )).	None
The appeal however was heard after Art.	None
31A and the Ninth Schedule had been introduced in the Constitution and therefore this Court had no occasion to consider whether such difference in payment of compensation would be violative of Art.	None
14.We are therefore clearly of opinion that the manner in which progressive cuts have been imposed on the purchase price under S. 52 and the market value under S. 64 in order to determine the compensation payable to land owners or intermediaries in one case and to persons from whom excess land is taken in another, results in discrimination and cannot be justified on any intelligible differentia which has any relation to the objects and purposes of the Act.	None
As the provision as to compensation is all pervasive, the entire Act must be struck down as violative of Art.	None
14 in its application to ryotwari lands which have come to the State of Kerala from the State of Madras.	Reasoning
34.	None
In view of what we have said above on the main points urged in the petitions, it is unnecessary to consider other subsidiary points attacking particular sections of the Act on the ground that they were unreasonable restrictions on the right to acquire, hold and dispose of property under Art. 19(1)(f).	None
We therefore allow the petitions and strike down the Act in relation to its application to ryotwari lands which have come to the State of Kerala from the State of Madras.	Decision
The petitioners will get their costs from the State of Kerala, one set of hearing costs.	Decision
Sarkar, J. 35.	None
I wish to say a few words on two of the questions that arise in these cases.	None
36.	None
The Act, the validity of which is challenged, provides for acquisition of lands for equitable distribution among the people who require it for cultivation by themselves.	None
It provids for payment of compensation to those whose interests are acquired.	None
It also provides for a mode of valuation of these interests.	None
Then it provides by Ss. 52 and 64 for payment of compensation at a progressively smaller rate for larger valuations.	None
For the higher slabs in the valuation made as provided by the Act, less and less is paid by way of compensation.	None
It is said that these provisions for progressively diminishing compensation are discriminatory and unconstitutional.	None
This is the first point with which I propose to deal.	None
37.	None
The question is whether the payment of compensation at a progressively smaller rate as the valuation is higher offends Art.	None
14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Now it is not disputed that progressively higher rate of taxation by an Act taxing income is not unconstitutional.	None
I think such taxation is too well recognised now to be challenged.	None
If that is soand that was the basis on which arguments proceeded in this case I am unable to see that a statute providing for acquisition of property and for payment of compensation at a progressively lower rate for the higher slabs of valuation can be unconstitutional.	None
38.	None
The reason for progressive taxation in the case of inheritance taxes and income taxes is the ability of those receiving or giving to pay Willis Constitutional Law (1936 ed.)	None
p. 597.	None
The cases in America that I have looked up also put the matter on the same basis.	None
The classification by progressively higher taxation in a taxing statute is therefore good if based on the taxpayers ability to pay.	None
39.	None
It is however said that what applies in the case of a taxing statute cannot apply to a statute permitting acquisition of property in payment of compensation.	None
I do not see, why?	None
I am not aware that the test for determining whether there has been unequal treatment is different with different varieties of statutes, that the test for a taxing statute is not the same as that for a statute providing for acquisition on payment of compensation.	None
I think the test is the same for all statutes, and it is that there must be an intelligible differentia having a rational relation to the object of the Act.	None
40.	None
Now the object of a taxing statute is to collect revenue for the governance of the country.	None
Ability to pay is acknowledged to be an intelligible differentia having a national relation to such an object.	None
The object of the statute with which we are concerned is to acquire land on payment of compensation so that the land may be equitably distributed among the people.	None
If under a statute whose object is to collect revenue more can be legitimately demanded from a person having more, it seems to me that under a statute whose object is to acquire land by paying compensation less can equally legitimately be paid to a person who has more.	None
Ability to pay, or which is the same thing as ability to bear the loss arising from smaller payment received, would in either case be an intelligible differentia having a rational relation to the object of the Act.	None
In one case it serves the object by collecting more revenue for adding to the resources for governing the country and in the other case it serves the object by making it possible for the State by payment of less money out of its resources to acquire lands for better distribution.	None
In both cases the State resources are benefited in one by augmentation and in the other by prevention of larger depletion.	None
Therefore, I would accept the learned AttorneyGenerals argument that Ss. 52 and 64 of the Act cannot be held to be discriminatory and void for the same reason on which progressive rates of taxation are held not to be so in the case of an Incometax Act.	None
41.	None
The next question on which I wish to say a few words concerns those provisions of the Act which exempt plantations of tea, coffee, rubber or cardamom or such other kinds of special crops as the Government may specify, from certain provisions of the Act.	None
Plantations have been defined in S. 2(39) of the Act as land used by a person principally for the cultivation of tea, coffee, rubber or cardamom or other notified crops.	Arguments of Petitioner
No other crop appears to have been notified yet.	None
Section 58 of the Act provides the ceiling area of land which may be held by any individual proprietor.	None
Land above the ceiling has to be surrendered to the Government.	None
Section 57 of the Act provides that this provision would not apply to plantations as defined in S. 2(39).	None
Again, Ch. 2 of the Act which gives the tenants the right to purchase land from the landlords and vests in the Government the lands of the landlords not themselves cultivating them above the ceiling fixed, is by S 3(viii) not made applicable to plantations exceeding thirty acres in extent.	None
The question is whether the benefit so given to the plantations as defined in the Act is discriminatory.	None
The petitioners own large scale cultivation of areca and pepper.	None
They contend that no legitimate differentiation is possible between lands on which areca and pepper are grown and lands on which tea, coffee, rubber and cardamom are grown.	None
42.	None
No doubt the presumption is that a statute is constitutional but such presumption is not conclusive.	None
It is also true that a court is entitled to assume the existence of all rational basis on which the classification made by an Act may be justified.	None
Even so, it seems to me, that the present classification is, on the materials now before us, not justified.	None
It may be that plantations of tea, coffer, rubber and cardamom, especially the first three, are usually large in size and require big investments.	None
It may be that they are carried on as industries which give employment to a large labour force.	None
These characteristics may however only justify the putting of large plantations of these crops in a class.	None
The Act however exempts all lands on which tea, coffee, rubber or cardamom is grown irrespective of the size of the business carried on or of labour employed on them, as a class.	None
Materials have been placed before us to show that there are a very large number of smaller plantations growing tea, coffee and rubber.	None
There are also many areca and pepper plantations exceeding thirty acres in area.	None
There is no reason to put tea, coffee, rubber and cardamom plantations in a class as distinguished from similar sizes of plantations of areca and pepper.	None
None at least has been shown by the State of Kerala to exist.	None
The only ground shown in the affidavit of the State of Kerala seeking to justify the classification of tea, coffee rubber and cardamom plantations in one class is that plantation crop is generally understood to refer only to tea, coffee, rubber and cardamom and that areca and pepper are not generally grown on a plantation scale I am unable to think that these afford sufficient justification for making a discrimination in favour of tea, coffee, rubber and cardamom plantations.	None
It would appear from the Planning Commissions Report that other kinds of crops might profitably be grown as plantation crops.	None
In any case, a general understanding even if there was one, is not sufficient basis for discrimination.	None
With regard to the other statements of the State, it is enough to say that the Act does not make a discrimination because of the size of the plantations.	None
Therefore, there is no point in saying that areca and pepper are not grown on a plantation scale.	None
43.	None
For these reasons I think the provisions in the Act making a discrimination in favour of tea, coffee, rubber and cardamom plantations cannot be upheld.	None
For the same reason, I think, the discriminatory treatment made in favour of cashew plantation also cannot be sustained.	None
Sections 3(viii), 57(1)(d) and 59(2) of the Act are therefore, in my opinion, invalid.	None
I think however that these provisions are severable from other parts of the Act.	None
I think it cannot be reasonably said that the legislature would not put the Act into operation if these provisions are taken out of it.	None
The deletion of the provisions does not further make it impossible for the rest of the Act to operate.	None
I am, therefore, unable, to hold that because the Sections mentioned above are bad, the whole Act should be declared to be bad.	None
44.	None
That is all I wish to say in this judgment.	None
With regard to the other matters arising in this case, I agree with the judgment delivered by Wanchoo J. Ayyangar, J. 45.	None
I entirely agree with the order that the petitions should be allowed and the impugned Act struck down in relation to its application to ryotwari lands which came into the State of Kerala from the State of Madrasthis being the only relief which the petitioners seek from this Court.	None
My only reason for this separate judgment is because I do not agree with that portion of the reasoning in the judgment just now pronounced in these petitions where it deals with the interpretation of Art. 31A(2).	None
In my judgment in the companion case Writ Petn.	None
No. 105 of 1961(SC)I have endeavoured to point out what according to me is the proper construction of this Article and I adhere to that view.	None
See AIR 1962 SC 694 .	None
46.	None
I consider that on Art.	None
31A(2) as it stands even after the Fourth Amendment, properties held on ryotwari tenures and the interest of the ryot in such lands would not be estates for the purposes of that Article.	None
No doubt, as pointed out by me in the other judgment, if there was a law existing on the date of the Constitution in relation to landtenures under which estates were defined as including not merely lands held by intermediaries and of others holding under favourable tenures, but also of ryotwari proprietors having direct relationship with the Government and paying full assessment, such latter category of interests might also be comprehended within the term estate by reason of the words have the same meaning as that expression. . . .	None
has in the existing law relating to land tenures in force in that area in Art. 31A(2) (a).	None
That is the real basis and the ratio underlying the decisions of this Court in Ram Narain Medhi v. State of Bombay, 1959 Supp (1) SCR 489 (AIR 1959 SC 459 ) and Atma Ram v. State of Punjab, 1959 Supp (1) SCR 748 (AIR 1959 SC 519 ).	None
In all other cases (apart from the two categories specially added by the Fourth Amendment) no lands other than those held by intermediaries or held on a favourable tenure would fall within the definition of an estate, this being according to me the central concept or the thread which runs through the entire definition.	None
47.	None
The choice between the different interpretations of the Article does not however present itself for the disposal of this petition which has to be answered in favour of the petitioner even on the view of the scope of Art.	None
31A which has commended itself to my colleagues.	None
Where an existing law in relation to landtenures in force in an area contains a definition of an estate and that definition excludes the interest of a ryotwari proprietor, the very words of Art.	None
31A(2)(a) which I have extracted earlier, would negative the applicability of its provisions to that tenure.	None
48.	None
Article 31A being out of the way I agree that the provision in (1) S. 2 (39) of the Act which by definition excludes pepper and areca plantations from the category of the plantations which are named in it which are exempted from the operative provisions of the impugned Act, (2) S. 58 for the determination of the ceiling in respect of different individuals who are brought within the scope of the enactment, and (3) Ss. 52 and 64 for determining the compensation payable to the several classes of persons whose lands are acquired under the Act, all these are violative of the guarantee of the equal protection of laws under Art.	None
14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
49.	None
I therefore agree in the order proposed that the petitions be allowed, and with costs.	None
50.	None
Petitions allowed.	None
