 H. KAPADIA, CJI Leave granted.	None
In this batch of Civil Appeals, the controversy pertains to validity of Sections 65(12) and 65(105)(zm) of the Finance Act, 1994 (as amended) insofar as the said provisions seek to levy service tax on leasing and hire purchase.	Facts
The appellants contend that service tax imposed by Section 66 of the Finance Act, 1994 on the value of taxable services referred to in Section 65(105)(zm) read with Section 65(12) of the Finance Act, 1994 (as amended), insofar as it relates to financial leasing services including equipment leasing and hire purchase is beyond the legislative competence of Parliament by virtue of Article 366(29A) of the Constitution.	Facts
Facts in Civil Appeal SLP (C) No. 24704 of 20093.	Facts
Appellant is an Association of leasing and financial companies.	Facts
Finance Act sought to levy service tax on banking and other financial services.	Facts
Section 137 of the Finance Act, 2001 substituted Section 65 of the Finance Act, 1994 by a new Section 65 which defined banking and other financial services.	Facts
Subsequently, this definition also underwent some changes by way of Section 90 of the Finance Act, 2004 and Section 135 of the Finance Act, 2007.	Facts
The relevant part of the definition as on date contained in Section 65(12) of the Finance Act, 1994 is as follows In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires (12) banking and other financial services means (a) the following services provided by a banking company or financial institution including a nonbanking financial company or any other body corporate or commercial concern namely (i) financial leasing services including equipment leasing and hirepurchase Appellant had filed a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court challenging the levy of service tax imposed by Section 65(12)(a)(i).	Facts
During the pendency of the writ petition, Union of India issued a Notification ST dated 1.3.2006 exempting 90 of the amount repayable under hirepurchase equipment leasing agreement(s) from service tax on the ground that the said 90 represented interest income earned by the service provider.	Facts
According to the appellant, the concept of service tax was first introduced by the Finance Act, 1994 which came into force w.e.f. 1.7.1994 under Chapter V.	Facts
No service tax was levied by the said Act or by its subsequent amendment till 2001.	Facts
However, vide Finance Act, 2001 service tax was imposed on banking and other financial services.	Facts
Vide Section 137(a) of the Finance Act, 2001, Section 65 of the Finance Act, 1994 was replaced by a new Section 65 which defined banking and other financial services vide clause (10).	Facts
By virtue of the said definition under Section 65(10)(i), Parliament has sought to bring within the service tax net, transactions in the nature of financial leasing, equipment leasing and hirepurchase.	Facts
By Section 65(72), the expression taxable service has been defined to mean any service provided to a customer, by a banking company or a financial institution including NBFC, in relation to banking and other financial services See Section 65(72)(zm).	Facts
Being aggrieved by the inclusion of hirepurchase and leasing services within the service tax net, the appellant herein challenged the amendment of 2001 as ultra vires the legislative competence of the Parliament.	Facts
By the impugned judgment, the Madras High Court has dismissed the writ petition, hence, this civil appeal.	Facts
Submissions Mr. Arvind P. Datar, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant(s), submitted that the effect of Article 366(29A) is to treat six types of transactions as deemed sales so as to enable state legislatures to levy sales tax under Entry 54, List II that, the Statement of Objects and Reasons to the Constitution (Fortysixth Amendment) Act makes it clear that all six transactions could have been taxed under Entry 97, List I by Parliament.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, based on the 61st Report of the Law Commission, the Constitution has now conferred exclusive power to the States to levy sales tax by expanding Entry 54, List II by insertion of Article 366(29A).	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, having characterized constitutionally the subject matter of hirepurchase and leasing as a sale (deemed sale), it is not open to Parliament to tax the same subject matter under Entry 97,	Arguments of Petitioner
List I. Thus, by reason of the Constitution (Fortysixth Amendment) Act, there exist six transactions as sales.	Arguments of Petitioner
That, inevitable corollary is that power of taxation of hirepurchase leasing, being sales, is exclusively with the state legislatures.	Arguments of Petitioner
The purpose of the Constitution (Fortysixth Amendment) Act was to reserve the exclusive competence to tax hirepurchase leasing transactions with state legislatures which is clearly seen from the 61st Report of the Law Commission which recommended constitutional amendment.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection, learned counsel has placed reliance on the principles laid down by this Court in Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited v. Union of India (2006) 3 SCC 1 .	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, once by reason of the Constitution (Fortysixth Amendment) Act the hirepurchase leasing is deemed to be a sale, any attempt to levy service tax on the same transaction will amount to a colourable exercise of power.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, when sales tax is already paid for the transfer of the right to use the goods particularly when such transfer is a deemed sale under Article 366(29A), it is not open to Parliament to impose service tax on the same transaction once again.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, the impugned judgment of the High Court assumes erroneously that hirepurchase leasing transactions include the concept of rendition of service and, thus, the impugned judgment needs to be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. T.R. Andhyarujina, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of one of the appellants, submitted that prior to the Constitution (Fortysixth Amendment) Act, the Parliament had the legislative competence to levy service tax on a hirepurchase transaction or leasing transaction except on the sale part in such transaction, which lay in the competence of the States under Entry 54, List II.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection, learned counsel placed reliance on the judgment of this Court in K.L. Johar and Co. v. Deputy Commercial Tax Officer (1965)	Arguments of Petitioner
2	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 112 .	Arguments of Petitioner
That, by the Constitution (Fortysixth Amendment) Act in Article 366(29A)(c) and (d), hirepurchase leasing transactions were deemed to be sales and, consequently, the legislative competence in respect of hire part of the transaction was made over to the States.	Arguments of Petitioner
That, the Law Commission in its 61st Report stated that the other alternative would be to transfer the entire power to the States.	Arguments of Petitioner
This will achieve a merger of the existing power of the States to tax the sale part and the new power to tax the hire part, which will enable state legislatures to provide for a tax on hire purchase price without demarcation.	Arguments of Petitioner
As a consequence of the Constitution (Fortysixth Amendment) Act, the Parliaments competence to levy a tax on an activity relating to financial leasing services including equipment leasing and hirepurchase is constitutionally truncated by the newly conferred exclusive legislative competence of States over the deemed sales in Article 366(29A)(c) and (d).	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the appellant(s), when Section 65 of the Finance Act imposes a service tax on value of taxable services, the value cannot include the elements of transaction of hirepurchase and leasing, which have now been transferred to the exclusive legislative competence of the States.	Arguments of Petitioner
That, although Parliament can levy service tax on the providing of services of hirepurchase and leasing of equipment if the service provider levies a charge by way of management fee, processing fee, documentation charges or administrative fees, the Parliament cannot levy a service tax in respect of the hire part in such transactions in view of the Constitution (Fortysixth Amendment) Act and, consequently, the Parliament has no legislative competence to levy service tax on the hiring charges in the transaction.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said hiring charges are nothing but interest charges on the finance provided in hiring and leasing and hence the impugned tax cannot extend to tax the interest charged in the transactions.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, various States have been imposing sales tax VAT on the entire transaction of hirepurchase leasing including the component of hire charges, interest and other charges.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is done in view of the Constitution (Fortysixth Amendment) Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, when sales tax VAT is charged by the States on the entire consideration including interest received under the hirepurchase and leasing transactions any tax by Parliament on the same is beyond the competence and residuary power under Entry 97 of List I.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, according to the learned counsel, levy of service tax in respect of the hire part in hirepurchase leasing transactions is beyond the competence of the Parliament.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Goolam E. Vahanvati, learned Attorney General for India, submitted that the basic contention advanced on behalf of the appellant(s) is that by reason of introduction of Article 366(29A) by the Constitution (Fortysixth Amendment) Act, the entire power of taxation in respect of hirepurchase transactions is now vested only in the States under Entry 54 of List II and that the Parliament has no power at all including the power to levy a service tax.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the Attorney General, the said argument is based on the contents of the 61st Report of the Law Commission, particularly, in relation to the background in which clauses (c) and (d) of Article 366(29A) were recommended.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Attorney General invited our attention to the historical background of Article 366(29A) and the 61st Report of the Law Commission in support of his submission that a legal fiction was sought to be inserted in Article 366 in order to give an artificial extension to the definition of sale so as to include the power to levy sales tax even on the hiring part, and this is all that Article 366(29A) intended to do.	Arguments of Respondent
From that, according to learned Attorney General, one cannot infer that Parliament has divested itself of the power to levy service tax.	Arguments of Respondent
According to learned Attorney General, the question of service tax was not even present in the mind of Parliament when the Constitution (Forty sixth Amendment) Act was enacted and, therefore, reliance on the 61st Report of the Law Commission was completely misconceived.	Arguments of Respondent
According to learned Attorney General, the reliance placed on Para 44 of the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (supra) by the appellant(s) is completely misconceived because that judgment read in entirety recognizes the power of Union of India to levy service tax.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Attorney General placed heavy reliance on the judgment of this Court in AllIndia Federation of Tax Practitioners v. Union of India (2007) 7 SCC 527 .	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Attorney General drew our attention to the conceptual distinction between a service tax and a tax on hiring transaction.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, the business of banking or organizing financial services is an organized activity and service tax is imposed on that activity of financial leasing services provided by a banking company, a nonbanking financial company, a body corporate engaged in the business of financial leasing, etc.	Arguments of Respondent
That, service tax is not imposed on the hiring part of a hirepurchase transaction.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned Attorney General, it is wrong to suggest that the whole field is covered by Entry 54 of List II as is sought to be contended on behalf of the appellant(s) because Article 366(29A), by way of a legal fiction, deems a tax on the delivery of goods on hire purchase to be a sale.	Arguments of Respondent
To interpret this fiction to mean that even a tax on financial leasing services is a tax on delivery of goods amounts to creating a fiction within a fiction, which is impermissible in law.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, according to the learned Attorney General, there is no question of the impugned levy being a levy of service tax on a hirepurchase transaction.	Arguments of Respondent
Relying on the doctrine of pith and substance, it was submitted that the substance of the impugned law must be looked at in order to determine whether it is in pith and substance within a particular entry whatever its ancillary effect may be.	Arguments of Respondent
Applying the said test, it was submitted that imposition of service tax on financial leasing services including equipment leasing and hire purchase does not, in pith and substance, fall within the scope of Entry 54 of List II as extended by Article 366(29A).	Arguments of Respondent
On the other hand, according to the learned Attorney General, in three decisions of this Court in the case of T.N. Kalayana Mandapam Association v. Union of India (2004) 5 SCC 632 , Gujarat Ambuja Cements Ltd. v. Union of India (2005) 4 SCC 214 and AllIndia Federation of Tax Practitioners (supra), it has been held that levy of service tax falls within Entry 97 of List I. For the aforestated reasons, it was submitted that the impugned levy is within the legislative competence of Parliament with reference to Entry 97 of List I of Seventh Schedule of the Constitution and, thus, the same is constitutionally valid.	Arguments of Respondent
Relevant provisions of the Finance Act, 2001 (as amended) By the Finance Act, 2001, Section 65 of the Finance Act, 1994 stood substituted.	None
For deciding this batch of cases, we are concerned with Section 65(10) read with Section 65(72)(zm), relevant parts whereof are quoted hereinbelow Definitions In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,(10) banking and other financial services means, the following services provided by a banking company or a financial institution including a nonbanking financial company, namely(i) financial leasing services including equipment leasing and hirepurchase by a body corporate(72) taxable service means any service provided,(zm) to a customer, by a banking company or a financial institution including a nonbanking financial company, in relation to banking and other financial services The point to be noted is that whereas Section 65(10) Section 65(12) defines what is banking and other financial services, Section 65(72)(zm) Section 65(105)(zm) indicates what is taxable service.	None
Section 65(12) read with Section 65(105)(zm), as amended, read as under Definitions.	None
In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,(12) banking and other financial service means(a) the following services provided by a banking company or a financial institution including a nonbanking financial company or any other body corporate, namely(i) financial leasing services including equipment leasing and hirepurchase by a body corporate(105) taxable service means any service provided,(zm) to a customer, by a banking company or a financial institution including a nonbanking financial company, in relation to banking and other financial services We also quote hereinbelow Section 66 of Finance Act, 2001 which deals with charge of service tax and the relevant portion whereof reads as under Charge of service tax (1) On and from the date of commencement of this Chapter, there shall be levied a tax (hereinafter referred to as the service tax), at the rate of five per cent.	None
of the value of the taxable services referred to in subclauses (a), (b) and (d) of clause (72) of section 65 and collected in such manner as may be prescribed.	None
We also quote hereinbelow Section 67 of Finance Act, 2001 which deals with valuation of taxable services for charging service tax.	None
The relevant portion of Section 67 is quoted herebelow Valuation of taxable services for charging service tax For the purposes of this Chapter, the value of any taxable service shall be the gross amount charged by the service provider for such service rendered by him.	None
Since in this batch of cases there is a challenge to the Constitutional validity of the imposition of service tax on hirepurchase lease transactions, we are also required to quote hereinbelow Article 366(29A) of the Constitution (29A) tax on the sale or purchase of goods includes(a) a tax on the transfer, otherwise than in pursuance of a contract, of property in any goods for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration(b) a tax on the transfer of property in goods (whether as goods or in some other form) involved in the execution of a works contract(c) a tax on the delivery of goods on hirepurchase or any system of payment by installments(d) a tax on the transfer of the right to use any goods for any purpose (whether or not for a specified period) for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration(e) a tax on the supply of goods by any unincorporated association or body of persons to a member thereof for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration(f) a tax on the supply, by way of or as part of any service or in any other manner whatsoever, of goods, being food or any other article for human consumption or any drink (whether or not intoxicating), where such supply or service, is for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration, and such transfer, delivery or supply of any goods shall be deemed to be a sale of those goods by the person making the transfer, delivery or supply and a purchase of those goods by the person to whom such transfer, delivery or supply is made We also quote hereinbelow Articles 246 and 248 of the Constitution, which read as follows 246  Subjectmatter of laws made by Parliament and by the Legislatures of States(1)	None
Notwithstanding anything in clauses (2) and (3), Parliament has exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List 1 in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the Union List).(2) Notwithstanding anything in clause (3), Parliament and subject to clause (1), the Legislature of any State also, have power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List III in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the Concurrent List).(3) Subject to clauses (1) and	None
(2), the Legislature of any State has exclusive power to make laws for such State or any part thereof with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List II in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the State List).(4) Parliament has power to make laws with respect to any matter for any part of the territory of India not included in a State notwithstanding that such matter is a matter enumerated in the State List.248  Residuary powers of legislation(1)	None
Parliament has exclusive power to make any law with respect to any matter not enumerated in the Concurrent List or State List.(2)	None
Such power shall include the power of making any law imposing a tax not mentioned in either of those Lists.	None
We are also required to quote Entry 97 of List I, which reads as under Any other matter not enumerated in List II or List III including any tax not mentioned in either of those Lists.	None
We quote hereinbelow Entry 54 of List II, which reads as under Taxes on the sale or purchase of goods other than newspapers, subject to the provisions of entry 92A of List I.Meaning of the words banking and other financial services in Section 65(12) of Finance Act, 1994 Before dealing with the submissions we need to clarify the concept of banking and other financial services which expression finds place in Section 65(12)(a)(i) of the Finance Act, 1994 (as amended).	None
At the outset, it may be noted that the Appellant(s) is a nonbanking financial company NBFC, for short.	None
The RBI was constituted under the RBI Act, 1934 (1934 Act, for short) inter alia to regulate the countrys monetary system.	None
It is appointed as a regulator to secure the monetary stability and to operate the credit system of the country.	None
Chapter IIIB of the 1934 Act deals with provisions relating to NBFCs and financial institutions.	None
Under Section 45I(a), the business of a NBFC is defined to mean carrying on the business of a financial institution referred to in clause (c) of Section 45I and includes business of a NBFC.	None
The expression financial institution means any nonbanking institution which carries on as its business an activity inter alia of financing, whether by way of making loans or advances or otherwise.	None
Thus, Section 45I(c) treats financing as an activity.	None
Under Section 45I(f), an NBFC is defined to mean a financial institution which is a company a nonbanking institution which is a company and which as a matter of business receives deposits or which lends in any manner.	None
These activities are regulated by RBI under the 1934 Act.	None
Thus, all NBFCs which carry on these activities as part of their business come within the purview of being financial institutions.	None
Under Section 45IA, no NBFC shall carry on the business of a nonbanking financial institution without obtaining a certificate of registration from RBI.	None
Under Section 45JA the RBI is authorized in public interest to issue directions to NBFCs relating to income recognition, accounting standards, deployment of funds etc. and such NBFCs shall be bound to follow the policy so determined.	None
Accordingly, under notification dated 2.1.1998 bearing No. 114, the deposit taking activities of NBFCs was sought to be regulated.	None
Under the said notification, there is classification of NBFCs.	None
Vide Clause 5 it has been clarified that several instances have come to the notice of RBI where NBFCs conducting their business as loan companies claim themselves to be equipment leasing hirepurchase finance companies with the intention to avail of higher borrowing limits and thus an NBFC having not less than 60 of its assets and deriving not less than 60 of its income from equipment leasing and hirepurchase activities taken together will only be eligible for being classified as equipment leasing company hirepurchase finance company.	None
The said notification is relied upon only to demonstrate that the classification of loan or investment companies is not only asset and income based but also that certain NBFCs undertake activities of equipment leasing and hirepurchase financing in addition to giving of loans.	None
Under clause (a) of the said Direction, RBI has categorized NBFCs on the basis of the businesses in which they are engaged including giving of loans, hirepurchase finance and equipment leasing activities See Taxmanns Statutory Guide to NBFCs page 224.	None
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) has also issued AS19 Accounting for Leases.	None
It is mandatory in respect of financial leases executed on or after April, 2001.	None
It inter alia provides for capitalization of finance lease assets in the books of the lessee instead of lessor.	None
The lessor NBFC is required to show the assets leased only as receivables in its balance sheet instead of as fixed assets.	None
The implication of the above AS19 for the NBFC prescribed by RBI vide amendments to the 1998 Directions is that all financial leases would now be accounted like hirepurchase transactions See Manual of NBFCs 9th Edition Page 268.	None
Similarly, under the RBI Guidelines dealing with accounting for investments, NBFCs having not less than 60 of the total assets in lease and hire purchase and deriving not less than 60 of their total income from such activities can be classified as hire purchase equipment leasing companies.	None
All these circulars and guidelines issued by RBI are relied upon only to show that equipment leasing and hire purchase are activities undertaken as business by NBFCs which are regulated as para banking activities by the RBI under the provisions of the 1934 Act.	None
They are regulated not only to protect depositors but also customers See Section 45I(c)(iii)(i).	None
The above activities are financing activities encompassed under Section 45I(c)(i) which in turn constitutes rendition of services to its customer(s) which is the taxable event under Section 65(105)(zm) of the Finance Act, 1994 (as amended).	None
Apart from NBFCs, even banks through their subsidiaries with the approval of RBI can undertake equipment leasing, hirepurchase business and financial services.	None
These are not direct lending activities.	None
However, RBI treats them as services or facilities.	None
The financial facilities are extended by way of equipment leasing or hirepurchase finance subject to approval of RBI See Taxmanns RBI Instructions for Banking Operations 7th Edition page 224.	None
The significance of the above circulars and guidelines is to show that the activities undertaken by NBFCs of equipment leasing and hirepurchase finance are facilities extended by NBFCs to their customers that, they are financial services rendered by NBFCs to their customers and that they fall within the meaning of the words banking and other financial services which is sought to be brought within the service tax net under Section 66 of the Finance Act, 1994.	None
One more aspect needs to be highlighted.	None
With the application of AS19, the leased assets are required to be shown as receivables and not as fixed assets which further shows that equipment leasing and hirepurchase finance are financial facilities which thereby funds projects presented by the customers to banks and other financial institutions including NBFCs.	None
Thus, the impugned tax is levied on these services as taxable services.	None
It is not a tax on material or sale.	None
The taxable event is rendition of service.	None
Hence, the impugned tax is different and distinct from tax on sale of goods under Entry 54 List II of the VIIth Schedule to the Constitution.	None
According to Sale of Goods Act by Mulla 6th Edition a common method of selling goods is by means of an agreement commonly known as a hirepurchase agreement which is more aptly described as a hiring agreement coupled with an option to purchase, i.e., to say that the owner lets out the chattel on hire and undertakes to sell it to the hirer on his making certain number of payments.	None
If that is the real effect of the agreement there is no contract of sale until the hirer has made the required number of payments and he remains a bailee till then.	None
But some socalled hirepurchase agreements are in reality contracts to purchase, the price to be paid by instalments and in those cases the contract is a contract of sale and not of hiring.	None
It depends on the terms of the contract whether it is to be regarded as a contract of hiring or a contract of sale.	None
A hirepurchase agreement partakes of the nature of a contract of bailment with an element of sale added to it.	None
However, if the intention of the financing party in obtaining the hirepurchase and the allied agreements is to secure the return of the loan advanced to its customer the transaction would be merely a financing transaction.	None
See page 75.	None
The point which needs to be restated is that the funding activity undertaken by the financing party which could be in the form of loan or equipment leasing or hirepurchase financing, would be exigible to service tax if such activity falls in the category of banking and other financial services under Section 65(12) of the Finance Act, 1994.	None
The financial transaction was earlier out of the tax net.	None
In the process there are two different and distinct transactions, viz., the financing transaction and the equipment leasing hirepurchase transaction.	None
The former is exigible to service tax under Section 66 of Finance Act, 1994 (as amended) whereas the latter would be exigible to local sales tax VAT.	None
Funding or financing the transaction of equipment leasing and hirepurchase covers two different and distinct transactions.	None
The activity of funding or financing by NBFC who is in the business of financing by giving loans, or equipment leasing or hirepurchase finance falls in the category of financial services rendered by NBFCs to their customers.	None
It is an activity in relation to the hirepurchase or lease transaction.	None
In this connection, as and by way of illustration we need to give an illustration which brings out the distinction between a finance lease and operating lease.	None
A finance lease transfers all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership, even though the title may or may not be eventually transferred to the lessee.	Reasoning
In the case of finance lease the lessee could use the asset for its entire economic life and thereby acquires risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of such assets.	Reasoning
In substance, finance lease is a financial loan from the lessor to the lessee.	Reasoning
On the other hand an operating lease is a lease other than the finance lease.	Reasoning
Accounting of a finance lease is under AS19, which as stated above, is mandatory for NBFCs.	Reasoning
It is a completely different regime.	Reasoning
According to Chitty on Contract, a hirepurchase agreement is a vehicle of instalment credit.	None
It is an agreement under which an owner lets chattels out on hire and further agrees that the hirer may either return the goods and terminate the hiring or elect to purchase the goods when the payments for hire have reached a sum equal to the amount of the purchase price stated in the agreement or upon payment of a stated sum.	Reasoning
The essence of the transaction is bailment of goods by the owner to the hirer and the agreement by which the hirer has the option to return the goods at some time or the other See para 36.242, 36.243.	Reasoning
Further, in the bailment termed hire the bailee receives both possession of the chattel and the right to use it in return for remuneration to be paid to the bailor See para 32.045.	Reasoning
Further, under the head equipment leasing, it is explained that it is a form of longterm financing.	None
In a finance lease, it is the lessee who selects the equipment to be supplied by the dealer or the manufacturer, but the lessor finance company provides the funds, acquires the title to the equipment and allows the lessee to use it for its expected life.	Reasoning
During the period of the lease the risk and rewards of ownership are transferred to the lessee who bears the risks of loss, destruction and depreciation or malfunctioning.	Reasoning
The bailment which underlies finance leasing is only a device to provide the finance company with a security interest its reversionary right.	Reasoning
If the lease is terminated prematurely, the lessor is entitled to recoup its capital investment less the realizable value of the equipment at the time and its expected finance charges less an allowance to reflect the return of the capital para 32.057.	None
In the case of hirepurchase agreement the periodical payments made by the hirer is made up of (a) consideration for hire (b) payment on account of purchase To sum up, NBFCs essentially are loan companies.	None
They basically conduct their business as loan companies.	None
They could be in addition thereto in the business of equipment leasing, hire purchase finance and investment.	None
Because NBFCs are basically loan companies, they are required to show the assets leased as receivables in their balance sheets.	None
That, the activities of hire purchase finance equipment leasing undertaken by NBFCs come under the category of para banking.	None
That, in substance a finance lease, unlike an operating lease, is a financial loan (assistance facility) by the lessor to the lessee.	Reasoning
That, in the bailment termed hire the bailee receives both possession of the chattel and the right to use it in return for remuneration.	Reasoning
On the other hand, equipment leasing is long term financing which helps the borrower to raise funds without outright payment in the first instance.	None
Here the interest element cannot be compared to consideration for lease hire which is in the nature of remuneration (consideration) for hire.	None
Thus, financing as an activity or business of NBFCs is different and distinct from operating lease hirepurchase agreements in the classical sense.	None
The elements of the finance lease or loan transaction are quite different from those in equipment leasing hirepurchase agreements between owner (lessor) and the hirer (lessee).	None
There are two independent transactions and what the impugned tax seeks to do is to tax the financial facilities extended to its customers by the NBFCs under Section 66 of the 1994 Act (as amended) as they come under banking and other financial services under Section 65(12) of the said Act.	None
The finance lease and the hirepurchase finance thus squarely come under the expression financial leasing services in Section 65(12) of the Finance Act, 1994 (as amended).	None
Nature and character of servicetax In All India Federation of Tax Practitioners case (supra), this Court explained the concept of service tax and held that service tax is a Value Added Tax (VAT for short) which in turn is a destination based consumption tax in the sense that it is levied on commercial activities and it is not a charge on the business but on the consumer.	None
That, service tax is an economic concept based on the principle of equivalence in a sense that consumption of goods and consumption of services are similar as they both satisfy human needs.	None
Today with the technological advancement there is a very thin line which divides a sale from service.	None
That, applying the principle of equivalence, there is no difference between production or manufacture of saleable goods and production of marketable saleable services in the form of an activity undertaken by the service provider for consideration, which correspondingly stands consumed by the service receiver.	None
It is this principle of equivalence which is inbuilt into the concept of service tax under the Finance Act, 1994.	None
That service tax is, therefore, a tax on an activity.	None
That, service tax is a value added tax.	None
The value addition is on account of the activity which provides value addition, for example, an activity undertaken by a chartered accountant or a broker is an activity undertaken by him based on his performance and skill.	None
This is from the point of view of the professional.	None
However, from the point of view of his client, the chartered accountant broker is his service provider.	None
The value addition comes in on account of the activity undertaken by the professional like tax planning, advising, consultation etc.	None
It gives value addition to the goods manufactured or produced or sold.	None
Thus, service tax is imposed every time service is rendered to the customer client.	None
This is clear from the provisions of Section 65(105)(zm) of the Finance Act, 1994 (as amended).	None
Thus, the taxable event is each exercise activity undertaken by the service provider and each time service tax gets attracted.	None
The same view is reiterated broadly in the earlier judgment of this Court in Godfrey Phillips India Ltd. v. State of U.P. (2005 (2) SCC 515 in which a Constitution Bench observed that in the classical sense a tax is composed of two elements the person, thing or activity on which tax is imposed.	None
Thus, every tax may be levied on an object or on the event of taxation.	None
Service tax is, thus, a tax on activity whereas sales tax is a tax on sale of a thing or goods.	None
Law as it stood before the Constitution (Fortysixth Amendment) Act, 1982	None
The principle that legislative entries must be given the widest interpretation is subject to the exception that where the entries use legal terms, they must be given their legal meaning.	None
This principle was established in The State of Madras v. Gannon Dunkerley Co., (Madras) Ltd. (1959)	None
SCR 379 where it was held that in Entry 48 List II, Seventh Schedule of the Government of India Act, 1935, the words sale of goods had the same meaning which those words have in the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 (1930 Act for short).	None
Thus, a legislature cannot extend its taxing power by defining the words sale of goods to cover transactions which did not constitute sale of goods within the 1930 Act.	None
Accordingly, it was held in Gannon Dunkerleys case that in a building contract there was neither a contract to sell materials used in the construction nor did the property in the materials pass as movables.	None
Accordingly, it was held that the provisions of the Madras General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1947 defining a sale to include a works contract were ultra vires.	None
It was held that the exercise of legislative power by the State legislature was an exercise to enlarge that power which would amount to amending Entry 54 of List II by an ordinary law which was impermissible because under that Entry the subject of the legislative power was tax on sale of goods.	None
The word sale is a nomen juris.	None
It is the name of a consensual contract.	None
The law with regard to chattels is embodied in the Sale of Goods Act.	None
A contract of sale is different from an agreement to sell and unlike other contracts, operates by itself and without delivery to transfer the property in the goods sold.	None
The word sale connotes both a contract and a conveyance or transfer of property.	None
The law relating to building contracts was wellknown when Gannon Dunkerleys case was decided and under that law the supply of goods as part of the works contract was not a sale.	None
Thus, the essential ingredients of the sale are agreement to sell movables for a price and property passing therein pursuant to an agreement.	None
Therefore, to allow subsequent exercise of legislative power to enlarge that power, would be to amend the entry relating to that power in the Constitution by an ordinary law, which is not permissible.	None
The principle of Gannon Dunkerleys case, however, has no application to a law enacted by the Parliament imposing sales tax on supply of materials in building contracts since Parliament has power to legislate in respect of Part C States under Article 246(4).	None
It is important to note that such power in the Parliament on the above matter could also be found in Entry 97, List I read with Article 248(2).	None
Entry 97 gives effect to Article 248.	None
Thus, although a sales tax on materials supplied under a building contract is outside Entry 54, List II, as held in Gannon Dunkerleys case, Parliament has power to impose such a tax.	None
See Constitutional Law of India by H.M. Seervai, pp. 2437	None
In K.L. Johar and Co. v. Deputy Commercial Tax Officer (1965) 2	None
SCR 112 , this Court held that a hirepurchase agreement had two elements, an element of bail and an element of sale.	None
When all the terms of the said agreement stood satisfied and the option to purchase was exercised, only at that stage sales tax would be exigible but the legislature would have no power to tax such agreements till that stage was reached.	None
Till that stage, a hirepurchase agreement is not a sale.	None
It is important to note that under K.L. Johars case, bailment termed as hire fell within the competence of the Parliament, the tax on sale of goods came within the competence of the State Legislature.	None
Further, delivery which is the essence of bailment was not treated as an essential element of sale as a taxable event and as a result certain consequences as enumerated in the Statement of Objects and Reasons to the Constitution (Fortysixth Amendment) Act ensued, as highlighted hereinbelow.	None
It is in view of the above problems, that the Constitution (Fortysixth Amendment) Act, 1982 came to be enacted.	None
The 61st Report of the Law Commission begins with the genesis.	None
One of the points referred to in the Law Commissions Report related to the restricted scope for the levy of sales tax by State Governments in respect of workscontract and hirepurchase transactions.	None
In the report it has been stated vide paras 1.6 1.7 at page 10 since the expression sale of goods in Entry 54 of State List has the same meaning as in Sale of Goods Act, a hirepurchase agreement is not a sale, as no property passes in such a transaction until the option to purchase is exercised and the other terms of the agreement are fulfilled.	None
Similarly, in a building contract, which is indivisible, there is no sale of goods.	None
It is contract of works.	None
Similarly, a transaction between an hotelier and a resident customer is one of service and is not taxable as sale of goods if there is a consolidated charge for boarding and lodging.	None
That, Gannon Dunkerleys case is an example of composite contracts, involving supply of goods and services.	None
It is in this background that we have considered the question whether the power to tax indivisible contracts of works should be conferred on the States.	None
It is in the above background that the Law Commission in fact observes Supreme Court with respect appears to have adopted an unusually restricted interpretation of the word sale.	Reasoning
It is true that the word sale is not defined in the Constitution but is well recognized canon of construction that the words used in the three legislative Lists should receive the widest interpretation and not to the narrow definition of the word sale contained in the Sale of Goods Act for the purpose of interpreting that expression in Entry 54, List II.	Reasoning
That is the principal juridical ground on which we have expressed our preference for the transfer of power to tax such contracts to the State Legislatures.	Reasoning
That, the Commission would prefer restoration of the power to State legislature See pages 19 and 20.	Reasoning
Thus, to restore the power to levy sales tax on such contracts, the Commission suggested the third out of the three belowmentioned alternatives(i) amending State List Entry 54(ii) adding a fresh Entry in the State List(iii) inserting in Article 366 a wide definition of sale so as to include works contract.27.	Reasoning
It is the third alternative that brought in Article 366(29A) vide the Constitution (Fortysixth Amendment) Act, 1982 (page 21).	Reasoning
Even in the context of hirepurchase contracts the same alternative is opted for by the Commission.	Reasoning
However, two observations of the Commission may be noticed.	Reasoning
The first is in para 25, page 32.	Reasoning
It reads as follows The effect of the judgment in K.L. Johars case is to reduce the tax base on which sales tax is payable.	Reasoning
A tax on hirepurchase without sale can be levied on the full value of the hirepurchase transaction by the Union under the residuary power  entry 97 of Union List.	None
To the same effect is the observation of the Commission at page 37	None
The power to tax hirepurchase within the State also vests in the Union under Union List, entry 97.	None
Thus, before the Constitution (Fortysixth Amendment) Act, hirepurchase transaction could have been taxed by Union under Entry 97, List I but as a matter of policy Parliament brought in Article 366 (29A) as recommended by the Commission.	None
The point to be noted is that reliance on the report though it helps our above reasoning on some of the aspects placed by the appellant (s) only shows that service tax was not in the mind of Parliament when the Constitution (Fortysixth Amendment) Act stood enacted.	Reasoning
It was not even in the mind of the Law Commission.	Reasoning
That, as stated above, only on the principal juridical ground that the word sale in Entry 54, List II should have been read widely, the Commission suggested that Article 366 be amended so that power to tax such contracts remains with the State Legislature as originally intended.	Reasoning
In fact at page 20, the Commission states before the judgment of the Supreme Court in Gannon Dunkerleys case, the word sale was usually regarded as including works contract and works contract was regarded as falling in Entry 54, List II and that taxes were in fact being levied and recovered by the States.	Reasoning
Scope of Article 366(29A)30.	Reasoning
If one examines Article 366(29A) carefully, one finds that clause (29A) provides for an inclusive definition and has two limbs.	Reasoning
The first limb says that the tax on sale or purchase of goods includes a tax on transactions specified in subclauses (a) to (f).	Reasoning
The second limb provides that such transfer, delivery or supply of goods referred to in the first limb shall be deemed to be a sale of those goods by the person making the transfer, delivery or supply and purchase of those goods by the person to whom such transfer, delivery or supply is made.	Reasoning
Now, in K.L. Johars case, this Court held that the States can tax hirepurchase transactions resulting in sale but only to the extent to which tax is levied on the sale price.	None
This led the Parliament to say, in the Statement of Objects and Reasons to the Constitution (Fortysixth Amendment) Act, though practically the purchaser in a hirepurchase transaction gets the goods on the date of entering into the hirepurchase contract, it has been held by the Supreme Court in K.L. Johars case that there is a sale only when the purchaser exercises the option to purchase which is at a later date and therefore only the depreciated value of the goods involved in such transaction at the time the option is exercised becomes assessable to sales tax which position has resulted in avoidance of tax in various ways.	Reasoning
Thus, we find from the Statement of Objects and Reasons that the concept of deemed sale is brought in by the Constitution (Fortysixth Amendment) Act only in the context of imposition of sales tax and that the words transfer, delivery or supply of goods is referred to in the second limb of Article 366(29A) to broaden the tax base and that as indicated in the Report of Law Commission prior to the judgment of this Court in Gannon Dunkerleys case, works contract was always taxed by the States as part of the word sale in Entry 48/54 of List II.	Reasoning
The object behind enactment of Article 366(29A) is to tax the composite price so that the full value of the hirepurchase price is taxed and to avoid the judgment in K.L. Johars case whose implication was to narrow the tax base resulting in seepage of sales tax revenue.	Reasoning
It is in that sense splitting of the contract needs to be understood.	Reasoning
Thus, it cannot be said that Parliament divested itself of the power to levy service tax vide enactment of the Constitution (Fortysixth Amendment) Act.	Reasoning
Even in the Report of the Law Commission, it has been observed that if a hirepurchase transaction results in a sale, salestax is undoubtedly leviable by the States.	None
No doubt, it is difficult to determine the sale price for the purpose of the sales tax law but this has no bearing on the question of legislative competence (page 26).	Reasoning
Thus, reliance placed by the appellant(s) on the expression splitting up in K.L. Johars case is misconceived because the splitting up referred to in K.L. Johars case was, as stated above, in regard to valuation and not in regard to legislative competence.	Reasoning
Whether the State Legislature has the exclusive competence to levy tax on financial leasing services under Entry 54, List II?	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the appellant(s) it was submitted that the State Legislature has the exclusive competence to levy a tax on hirepurchase and financial leasing by reason of Entry 54, List II read with Article 366(29A).	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that, as held by this Court in the case of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (supra) vide para 44, splitting was permissible under Article 366(29A) only in two cases indicated in subclauses (b) and (f) and that in no other service (including hirepurchase).	None
For answering the above, we need to keep in mind the doctrine of pith and substance and the rule of interpretation of legislative entries.	Reasoning
These have to be applied to what is stated hereinabove in the earlier part of our judgment in which we have dealt with the concept of banking and other financial services and the nature and character of service tax as a tax on activities.	Reasoning
We may reiterate that Equipment Leasing and HirePurchase Finance are activities of long term financing and they fall within the ambit of banking and other financial services.	Reasoning
As stated above, a financial lease is a lease that transfers substantially all risks and rewards incident to ownership.	Reasoning
In the said lease, the lessor (NBFC) merely finances the equipment asset which the lessee is free to select, order, take delivery and maintain.	Reasoning
The lessor (NBFC) arranges the funding.	Reasoning
It accepts the invoice from the vendor (supplier) and pays him.	Reasoning
The income which the lessor earns is by way of finance interest charges in addition to the management fees or documentation charges, etc.	Reasoning
It is this income which constitutes the measure of tax for the purposes of calculating the value of taxable services under Section 67 of the Finance Act, 1994.	Reasoning
Thus, a financial lease would come within financial leasing services in terms of Section 65(12)(a)(i).	Reasoning
There are different types of financial leases, namely, a taxbased financial lease, a leverage lease and an operating lease.	Reasoning
In the present case, there is no adjudication of the matter.	Reasoning
The appellant(s) approached the High Court directly without proper adjudication by the competent authority under the Finance Act, 1994.	Reasoning
Even in the matter of allocation between the principal and finance interest charges, adjudication under the Act was warranted which has not been done.	Reasoning
One must also bear in mind that Article 366(29A) is essentially sales tax specific.	Reasoning
It was brought in to expand the tax base which stood narrowed down because of certain judgments of this Court.	Reasoning
That is the reason for bringing in the concept of deemed sale under which tax could be imposed on mere delivery on hirepurchase See clause (c) which expression is also there in the second limb of the said article.	Reasoning
To begin we would like to quote hereinbelow from the judgment of this Court the relevant observations in the case of The Second Gift Tax Officer, Mangalore v. D.H. Hazareth AIR 1970 SC 999 on the doctrine of pith and substance The sovereignty of Parliament and the Legislatures is a sovereignty of enumerated entries, but within the ambit of an entry, the exercise of power is as plenary as any Legislature can possess, subject, of course, to the limitations arising from the fundamental rights.	None
The entries themselves do not follow any logical classification or dichotomy.	None
As was said in State of Rajasthan v. S. Chawla (1959)	None
Supp 1 SCR 904 (AIR 1959 SC 544 ) the entries in the Lists must be regarded as enumeratio simplex of broad categories.	None
Since they are likely to overlap occasionally, it is usual to examine the pith and substance of legislation with a view to determining to which entry they can be substantially related, a slight connection with another entry in another List notwithstanding.	None
Therefore, to find out whether a piece of legislation falls within any entry, its true nature and character must be in respect to that particular entry.	None
The entries must of course receive a large and liberal interpretation because the few words of the entry are intended to confer vast and plenary powers.	None
If, however, no entry in any of the three Lists covers it, then it must be regarded as a matter not enumerated in any of the three Lists.	None
Then it belongs exclusively to Parliament under entry 97 of the Union List as a topic of legislation.	None
We also quote hereinbelow the relevant observations in the case of M s Ujagar Prints (II) v. Union of India (1989) 3 SCC 488 Entries to the legislative lists, it must be recalled, are not sources of the legislative power but are merely topics or fields of legislation and must receive a liberal construction inspired by a broad and generous spirit and not in a narrow pedantic sense.	None
The expression with respect to in Article 246 brings in the doctrine of Pith and Substance in the understanding of the exertion of the legislative power and wherever the question of legislative competence is raised the test is whether the legislation, looked at as a whole, is substantially with respect to the particular topic of legislation.	None
If the legislation has a substantial and not merely a remote connection with the entry, the matter may well be taken to be legislation on the topic.	None
On the interpretation of legislative entries the law is wellsettled by the judgment of this Court in the case of M s. International Tourist Corporation v. State of Haryana AIR 1981 SC 774 in the following terms Before exclusive legislative competence can be claimed for Parliament by resort to the residuary power, the legislative incompetence of the State legislative must be clearly established.	None
Entry 97 itself is specific that a matter can be brought under that entry only if it is not enumerated in List II or List III and in the case of a tax if it is not mentioned in either of those Lists.	None
In a Federal Constitution like ours where there is a division of legislative subjects but the residuary power is vested in Parliament, such residuary power cannot be so expansively interpreted as to whittle down the power of the State Legislature.	None
That might affect and jeopardise the very federal principle.	None
The federal nature of the Constitution demands that an interpretation which would allow the exercise of legislative power by Parliament pursuant to the residuary powers vested in it to trench upon State legislation and which would thereby destroy or belittle State autonomy must be rejected . . .	None
Now coming to the main point whether the whole field is covered by Entry 54 and that the levy of service tax is incompetent, it is important to note the language of Entry 97, List I and Article 248 except for the word other in Entry 97.	Reasoning
This is because when one reads Entry 97 of List I with Article 246(1) it confers exclusive power first, to make laws in respect of matters specified in Entries 1 to 96 in List I and, secondly, it confers the residuary power of making laws by Entry 97.	Reasoning
Article 248 does not provide for any express powers of Parliament but only for its residuary power.	Reasoning
Article 248 adds nothing to the power conferred by Article 246(1) read with Entry 97, List I.	Reasoning
In the context of an exhaustive enumeration of subjects of legislation what does the conferment of residuary power mean?	Reasoning
Entry 97, List I which confers residuary powers on Parliament provides any other matter not enumerated in List II and List III including any tax not mentioned in either of those lists.	Reasoning
The word other is important.	Reasoning
It means any subject of legislation other than the subject mentioned in Entries 196.	None
Lastly, we must keep in mind a clear distinction between the subject and measure of tax.	None
See Goodricke Group Ltd. v. State of West Bengal, (1995)	Reasoning
Suppl 1 SCC 707 37.	Reasoning
Applying the above decisions to the present case, on examination of the impugned legislation in its entirety, we are of the view that the impugned levy relates to or is with respect to the particular topic of banking and other financial services which includes within it one of the several enumerated services, viz., financial leasing services.	Reasoning
These include long time financing by banks and other financial institutions (including NBFCs).	Reasoning
These are services rendered to their customers which comes within the meaning of the expression taxable services as defined in Section 65(105)(zm).	Reasoning
The taxable event under the impugned law is the rendition of service.	Reasoning
The impugned tax is not on material or sale.	Reasoning
It is on activity service rendered by the service provider to its customer.	Reasoning
Equipment Leasing HirePurchase finance are long term financing activities undertaken as their business by NBFCs.	Reasoning
As far as the taxable value in case of financial leasing including equipment leasing and hirepurchase is concerned, the amount received as principal is not the consideration for services rendered.	Reasoning
Such amount is credited to the capital account of the lessor hirepurchase service provider.	Reasoning
It is the interest finance charge which is treated as income or revenue and which is credited to the revenue account.	Reasoning
Such interest or finance charges together with the lease management fee processing fee documentation charges are treated as considerations for the services rendered and accordingly they constitute the value of taxable services on which service tax is made payable.	Reasoning
In fact, the Government has given exemption from payment of service tax to financial leasing services including equipment leasing and hirepurchase on that portion of taxable value comprising of 90 of the amount representing as interest, i.e., the difference between the instalment paid towards repayment of the lease amount and the principal amount in such instalments paid (See Notification No. 4/2006  Service Tax dated 1.3.2006).	Reasoning
In other words, service tax is leviable only on 10 of the interest portion.	Reasoning
(See also Circular F.No. B.11/1/2001TRU dated 9.7.2001 in which it has been clarified that service tax, in the case of financial leasing including equipment leasing and hirepurchase, will be leviable only on the lease management fees processing fees documentation charges recovered at the time of entering into the agreement and on the finance interest charges recovered in equated monthly instalments and not on the principal amount).	Reasoning
Merely because for valuation purposes inter alia finance interest charges are taken into account and merely because service tax is imposed on financial services with reference to hiring interest charges, the impugned tax does not cease to be service tax and nor does it become tax on hirepurchase leasing transactions under Article 366(29A) read with Entry 54, List II.	Reasoning
Thus, while State Legislature is competent to impose tax on sale by legislation relatable to Entry 54 of List II of Seventh Schedule, tax on the aspect of the services, vendor not being relatable to any entry in the State List, would be within the legislative competence of the Parliament under Article 248 read with Entry 97 of List I of Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	Reasoning
According to Mr. Arvind Datar and Mr. K. Parasaran, learned counsel appearing on behalf of some of the appellants, once the subject matter of hirepurchase and leasing is constitutionally characterized as a sale (deemed sale) by the Constitution (Fortysixth Amendment) Act, the said subject matter can be taxed only under Entry 54, List II and it cannot be taxed under Entry 97,	None
List I.	Reasoning
According to the learned counsel, the object behind enactment of the Constitution (Fortysixth Amendment) Act was to reserve the exclusive competence to tax hirepurchase transactions with the State Legislature and exclude the Parliament from the legislative sphere.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of the above contentions, learned counsel placed reliance on para 44 of the judgment of this Court in the case of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (supra), the relevant portion of which is quoted hereinbelow Of all the different kinds of composite transactions, the drafters of the FortySixth Amendment chose three specifications, a works contract, a hire purchase contract and a catering contract to bring them within the fiction of a deemed sale.	Arguments of Petitioner
Of these three, the first and third involve a kind of service and sale at the same time.	Arguments of Petitioner
Emphasizing the underlined words, the learned counsel contended that a hirepurchase does not involve a sale and service at the same time and, therefore, service tax cannot be levied on the interest finance charges which is sought to be done in the present case.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our view, the judgment in Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limiteds case has no application to the present case.	None
As stated above, what is challenged in this case is the service tax imposed by Section 66 of the Finance Act, 1994 (as amended) on the value of taxable services referred to in Section 65(105)(zm) read with Section 65(12) of the said Act, insofar as it relates to financial leasing services including equipment leasing and hirepurchase as beyond the legislative competence of Parliament by virtue of Article 366(29A) of the Constitution.	Facts
In short, legislative competence of the Parliament to impose service tax on financial leasing services including equipment leasing and hirepurchase is the subject matter of challenge.	Reasoning
Legislative competence was not the issue before this Court in the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limiteds case.	Reasoning
In that case, the principal question which arose for determination was in respect of the nature of the transaction by which mobile phone connections are enjoyed.	Reasoning
The question was whether such connections constituted a sale or a service or both.	Reasoning
If it was a sale then the States were legislatively competent to levy sales tax on the transaction under Entry 54, List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	Reasoning
If it was service then the Central Government alone had the legislative competence to levy service tax under Entry 97, List I and if the nature of the transaction partook of the character of both sale and service, then the moot question would be whether both the legislative authorities could levy their separate taxes together or only one of them.	Reasoning
It was held that the subject transaction was a service and, thus, the Parliament had legislative competence to levy service tax under Entry 97, List I.	Reasoning
In para 88 of the said judgment, this Court observed that No one denies the legislative competence of the States to levy sales tax on sales provided that the necessary concomitants of a sale are present in the transaction and the sale is distinctly discernible in the transaction.	Reasoning
This does not however allow the State to entrench upon the Union List and tax services by including the cost of such service in the value of the goods.	Reasoning
The principle of law in para 88 squarely applies to the present case.	Reasoning
As stated above, we are concerned with financial leasing services which are sought to be taxed under Section 65(12)(a)(i).	Reasoning
The taxable event is indicated in Section 65(105)(zm).	Reasoning
As stated above, the impugned provision operates qua an activity of funding financing of equipment asset under equipment leasing under which a lessee is free to select, order, take delivery and maintain the asset.	Reasoning
The lessor (NBFC) arranges the finances.	Reasoning
It accepts the invoice from the vendor (supplier) and pays him.	Reasoning
Thus, the lessor (NBFC) renders financial services to its customer(s) and what is taxed under the impugned provision is the income, by way of finance interest charges in addition to management fees documentation charges, which is earned by the financier (lessor).	Reasoning
The taxable event is the service which is rendered by the finance company to its customer(s).	Reasoning
The value of taxable service under Section 67 is income by way of interest finance charges (measure of tax) which is not determinative of the character of the levy.	Reasoning
Thus, Section 67 of the Finance Act, 1994 seeks to tax financial services rendered by the appellant(s) with reference to the income which the appellant(s) earns by way of interest finance charges.	Reasoning
In the circumstances and for the reasons given hereinabove, the question of splitting up of transactions, as contended on behalf of the appellant(s), does not arise.	Reasoning
As held hereinabove, equipment leasing and hirepurchase finance constitute long term financing activity.	Reasoning
Such an activity was not the subject matter of the discussion in the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limiteds case.	Reasoning
The service tax in the present case is neither on the material nor on sale.	None
It is on the activity of financing funding of equipment asset within the meaning of the words financial leasing services in Section 65(12)(a)(i).	Reasoning
Lastly, we may state that this Court has on three different occasions upheld the levy of service with reference to Entry 97 of List I in the face of challenges to the competence of the Parliament based on the entries in List II and on all the three occasions, this Court has held that the levy of service tax falls within Entry 97 of List I.	Reasoning
The decisions are in the case of T.N. Kalayana Mandapam Association (supra), Gujarat Ambuja Cements Ltd. (supra) and AllIndia Federation of Tax Practitioners (supra).	Reasoning
Conclusion40.	Decision
As stated above, the appellant(s) had moved the High Court in the writ petition challenging the validity of Section 66 of the Finance Act, 1994 on the value of taxable services referred to in Section 65(105)(zm) read with Section 65(12)(a)(i) without exhausting the statutory remedy.	Decision
The contracts entered into by the appellant(s) with its customers were not vetted.	Decision
There has been no adjudication under the Act in most of these cases and, therefore, we hereby direct the competent authority under the Finance Act, 1994 to decide the matter in accordance with the law laid down.	Decision
Subject to above, for the aforestated reasons, we hold that the service tax imposed by Section 66 of the Finance Act, 1994 (as amended) on the value of taxable services referred to in Section 65(105)(zm) read with Section 65(12) of the said Act, insofar as it relates to financial leasing services including equipment leasing and hirepurchase is within the legislative competence of the Parliament under Entry 97, List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	Decision
Accordingly, the appeals are dismissed with no order as to costs.	Decision
