 K.Agrawal, J. 1.	None
Leave granted.	None
2. These appeals have been preferred against the impugned judgment and order dated 23.12.2014 passed by the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad in Tax Appeal Nos. 6 and 14 of 2004 whereby the Division Bench of the High Court dismissed the appeals filed by the Revenue while upholding the decision of the Income Tax Appellant Tribunal (for brevity the Tribunal) dated 27.06.2003. 3.	Issue
Brief facts a.	None
On 10.09.1998, the Respondent, who is the Chairman and Managing Director of Procter and Gamble (PG), India, filed his income tax return for the Assessment Year 199899 and declaring the total income at Rs 40,13,820/. b.	Facts
The Assessing Officer, vide order dated 12.02.2001, concluded the assessment proceeding under Section 143(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (in short the IT Act) and determined the total income of the Respondent at Rs 7,23,11,013/ against the declared income.	Facts
c. Being aggrieved, the Respondent preferred an appeal before the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) being No. CAB I643/20002001.	Facts
After considering the case, learned CIT (Appeals), vide order dated 28.03.2002, dismissed the appeal of the Respondent after comprehensively discussing the taxability of the alleged amount and upholding the Assessment Order passed by the Assessing Officer.	Facts
d.	None
Being dissatisfied, the Respondent carried the matter before the Tribunal.	Facts
The Tribunal, vide order dated 27.06.2003, in ITA No. 2241/Ahd/2002 partly allowed the appeal filed by the Respondent.	Facts
e.	None
At this juncture, the Respondent as well as the Revenue both preferred cross appeals before the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad.	Facts
f.	None
At the same time, consequent to the decision of the Tribunal dated 27.06.2003, the Assessing Officer started the proceeding side by side to give effect to the order dated 27.06.2003.	Facts
Vide order dated 15.09.2003, the Assessing Officer held that the difference being sum of Rs 6,80,40,649/ paid to the Respondent by PG, USA shall be treated as capital gains on transfer redemption of shares, and hence, the Respondent is liable to pay tax on capital gains.	Facts
Being aggrieved with the order dated 15.09.2003, the Respondent filed an appeal before the CIT (Appeals) being No. CAB V 37/0405 which was upheld by learned CIT (Appeals) in favour of Assessing Officer while dismissing the appeal of the Respondent.	Facts
g.	None
Being dissatisfied, the Respondent further preferred an appeal before the Tribunal.	Facts
The Tribunal, vide order dated 24.09.2010, dismissed the appeal.	Facts
The decision of the Tribunal dated 24.09.2010 was not challenged further.	Facts
h.	None
The Division Bench of the High Court, vide judgment and order dated 23.12.2004, allowed the appeal filed by the Respondent while dismissing the appeal of the Revenue.	Facts
i. Hence, the present appeals have been filed by the Revenue before this Court.	None
4.	None
We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions of leaned senior counsel for the parties and perused the factual matrix of the case. Point(s) for consideration 5.	None
Whether in the present facts and circumstances of the case, any interference by this Court is required with the impugned decision of the High Court?	Issue
Rival contentions 6.	None
At the outset, learned counsel for the Revenue contended that the High Court erred in law while upholding that the amount received on redemption of Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) is to be treated as capital gains and not perquisite under section 17(2)(iii) of the IT Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, the same is not taxable under the category of capital gains since no consideration had passed from the Respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
7.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his argument, learned counsel placed reliance on Sumit Bhattacharya vs. ACIT Circle 16(1), Mumbai  2008 112 ITD 1 (MUM.)	Arguments of Petitioner
(SB) and contended that the Respondent, having received an amount on redemption of Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) as an employee of the company and there was an employeremployee relationship subsisting at the relevant point of time, therefore, the amount received on redemption of Share Appreciation Rights must be treated as taxable income under the head income from Salaries.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel finally contended that the impugned decision of the High Court deserves to be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
8.	None
Per contra, learned senior counsel appearing for the Respondent submitted that the amount received by the Respondent from redemption of Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) can be treated only as capital gains and cannot be treated as perquisite under Section 17(2) (iii) of the IT Act or under Section 28 (iv) of the IT Act.	Arguments of Respondent
However, it was pointed out that the said capital gains cannot be said to arose to the Respondent since there was no consideration paid as the cost of acquisition by the Respondent.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also submitted that such amount received on account of redemption of Stock Appreciation Rights could have been taxed if at all under the provisions of Clause (iiia) of Section 17(2) of the IT Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Finally, it was also submitted that the question of law sought to be raised by the Revenue is no more res integra as settled by this Court in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax vs. Infosys Technologies Ltd., 2008 297 ITR 167 (SC) .	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, these appeals deserve to be dismissed at the threshold.	Arguments of Respondent
Discussion 9.	None
Before examining the case at hand, it is pertinent to have an understanding of the words Perquisite and Capital Gains.	Issue
The word Perquisite in common parlance may be defined as any perk or benefit attached to an employee or position besides salary or remuneration.	Reasoning
Broadly speaking, these are usually noncash benefits given by an employer to an employee in addition to entitled salary or remuneration.	Reasoning
It may be said that these benefits are generally provided by the employers in order to retain the talented employees in the organization.	Reasoning
There are various instances of perquisite such as concessional rent accommodation provided by the employer, any sum paid by an employer in respect of an obligation which was actually payable by the employee etc. Section 17(2) of the IT Act was enacted by the legislature to give the broad view of term perquisite.	Reasoning
On the other hand, the word Capital Gains means a profit from the sale of property or an investment.	Reasoning
It may be short term or long term depending upon the facts and circumstances of each case.	Reasoning
This gain or profit is charged to tax in the year in which transfer of the capital assets takes place.	Reasoning
In the instant case, the fundamental question which arises for consideration before this Court is with regard to the taxability of the amount received by the Respondent on redemption of Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs.)	Reasoning
10.	None
It is a matter of record that the Respondent was employed as the ChairmancumManaging Director of the (PG) India Ltd. at the relevant time and the said company is the subsidiary of (PG) USA through Richardson Vicks Inc. USA and that (PG) USA owned controlling equity.	Reasoning
It is an undisputed fact that the Respondent was working as a salaried employee.	Reasoning
The (PG) USA was the company who had issued the Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs.)	Reasoning
to the Respondent without any consideration from 1991 to 1996.	Reasoning
The said SARs were redeemed on 15.10.1997 and in lieu of that the Respondent received an amount of Rs 6,80,40,724/ from (PG) USA.	Reasoning
However, when the Respondent filed his return, he claimed this amount as an exemption from the ambit of Income Tax.	Reasoning
The issue involved in this appeal is in respect of Rs 6,80,40,724/ made on account of amount received on redemption of Stock Appreciation Rights.	Issue
11.	None
The Tribunal was of the view that the stock options are capital assets and such assets in the instant case acquired for consideration, hence, gain arising therefrom is liable to capital gain tax.	None
However, the stand of the Revenue before the Tribunal was that the amount in question is taxable as perquisite under Section 17(2)(iii) of the IT Act or in alternatively under Section 28(iv) of the IT Act instead of capital gains.	None
The High Court also upheld the view of the Tribunal but the High Court disagreed that such capital gains arose to the Respondent on redemption of Stock Appreciation Rights since there was no cost of acquisition involved from the side of the Respondent.	None
The meaning of the word perquisite for the instant case is given under Section 17(2) of the IT Act.	None
The Revenue alternatively contended that the case of the Respondent should come under the ambit of Section 28(iv) of the IT Act.	Arguments of Respondent
12.	None
It is apposite to note here that, particularly, in order to bring the perquisite transferred by the employer to the employees within the ambit of tax, legislature brought an amendment under Section 17 of the IT Act by inserting Clause (iiia) in Section 17(2) of the IT Act through the Finance Act, 1999 (27 of 1999) with effect from 01.04.2000, which was later on omitted by the Finance Act, 2000.	Reasoning
The said Clause (iiia) as it was then is reproduced herein below (iiia) the value of any specified security allotted or transferred, directly or indirectly, by any person free of cost or at concessional rate, to an individual who is or has been in employment of that person Provided that in a case where allotment or transfer of specified securities is made in pursuance of an option exercised by an individual, the value of the specified securities shall be taxable in the previous year in which such option is exercised by such individual.	None
Explanation For the purposes of this clause, cost means the amount actually paid for acquiring specified securities and where no money has been paid, the cost shall be taken as nil specified securities means the securities as defined in clause(h) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) and includes employees stock option and sweet equity shares sweat equity shares means equity shares issued by a company to its employees or directors at a discount or for consideration other than cash for providing know how or making available rights in the nature of intellectual property rights or value additions, by whatever name called and value means the difference between the fair market value and the cost for acquiring specified securities 13.	None
The intention behind the said amendment brought by the legislature was to bring the benefits transferred by the employer to the employees as in the instant case, within the ambit of the Income Tax Act, 1961.	Reasoning
It was the first time when the legislature specified the meaning of the cost for acquiring specific securities.	Reasoning
Only by this amendment, legislature determined what would constitute the specific securities.	Reasoning
By this amendment, legislature clearly covered the direct or indirect transfer of specified securities from the employer to the employees during or after the employment.	Reasoning
On a perusal of the said clause, it is evident that the case of the Respondent falls under such clause.	Reasoning
However, since the transaction in the instant case pertains to prior to 01.04.2000, hence, such transaction cannot be covered under the said clause in the absence of an express provision of retrospective effect.	Reasoning
We also do not find any force in the argument of the Revenue that the case of the Respondent would fall under the ambit of Section 17(2) (iii) of the IT Act instead of Section 17(2) (iiia) of the IT Act.	Reasoning
It is a fundamental principle of law that a receipt under the IT Act must be made taxable before it can be treated as income.	Reasoning
Courts cannot construe the law in such a way that brings an individual within the ambit of Income Tax Act to pay tax who otherwise is not liable to pay.	Reasoning
In the absence of any such specific provision, if an individual is subjected to pay tax, it would amount to the violation of his Constitutional Right.	Reasoning
14.	None
It is pertinent to note that on the point of applicability of clause (iiia) of Section 17(2) of the IT Act, this Court settled the position in Infosys Technologies Ltd (supra), and has held as under 17.	Reasoning
Be that as it may, proceeding on the basis that there was benefit the question is whether every benefit received by the person is taxable as income?	Reasoning
In our view, it is not so.	Reasoning
Unless the benefit is made taxable, it cannot be regarded as income.	Reasoning
During the relevant assessment years, there was no provision in law which made such benefit taxable as income.	Reasoning
Further, as stated, the benefit was prospective.	Reasoning
Unless a benefit is in the nature of income or specifically included by the legislature as part of income, the same is not taxable.	Reasoning
In this case, the shares could not be obtained by the employees till the lockin period was over.	Reasoning
On facts, we hold that in the absence of legislative mandate a potential benefit could not be considered as income of the employee(s) chargeable under the head salaries 15.	Reasoning
The Revenue also contended before the High Court that the amendment brought in by Section 17(2) of the IT Act was clarificatory, hence, retrospective in nature.	None
However, the High Court rejected the stand of the Revenue.	None
The High Court, in its impugned judgment, on the point of the applicability of clause has held as under 15.	None
In the case of Commissioner of IncomeTax, Bangalore vs B.C. Srinivasa Setty (1981) 128 ITR 294 (SC) this Court held that the charging section and computation provision under the 1961 Act constituted an integrated code.	None
The mechanism introduced for the first time under the Finance Act, 1999 by which cost was explained in the manner stated above was not there prior to 1.4.2000.	None
The new mechanism stood introduced w.e.f. 1.4.2000 only.	None
With the above definition of the word cost introduced vide clause (iiia), the value of option became ascertainable.	None
There is nothing in the Memorandum to the Finance Act, 1999 to say that this new mechanism would operate retrospectively.	None
Further, a mechanism which explains cost in the manner indicated above cannot be read retrospectively unless the Legislature expressly says so.	None
It was not capable of being implemented retrospectively.	None
Till 1.4.2000, in the absence of the definition of the word cost value of the option was not ascertainable.	None
In our view, clause (iiia) is not clarificatory.	None
Moreover, the meaning of the words specified securities in section (iiia) was defined or explained for the first time vide Finance Act , 1999 w.e.f.	None
1.4.2000.Morevover, the words allotted or transferred in clause (iiia) made things clear only after 1.4.2000.	None
Lastly, it may be pointed out that even clause (iiia) has been subsequently deleted w.e.f. 1.4.2001.	None
For the afore stated reasons, we are of the view the clause (iiia) cannot be read as retrospective.	None
16.	None
Circular No. 710 dated 24.07.1995 which was issued by the CBDT deals with the taxability of shares issued at less than the market price.	Reasoning
For ready reference, Circular No. 710 issued by the CBDT is reproduced hereinbelow 202.	None
Taxability of the perequisite on shares issued to employees at less than market price 1.	None
Chief Commissioners and corporate assessees have been seeking clarification regarding taxability of the perquisite on shares issued to the employees at less than market price.	None
2.	None
The matter has been considered by the Board.	None
The benefit does amount to a perquisite within the meaning of clause (iii) of subsection (2) of Section 17 of the IncomeTax Act, 1961.	None
The various situations in this regard have to be dealt with as under (i) where the shares held by the Government have been transferred to the employee, there will be no perquisite because the employeremployee relationship does not exist between Government and the employee (transferor and the transferee) (ii) where the company offers shares to the employees at the same price as have been offered to the other shareholders or the general public, there will be no perquisite (iii) where the employer has offered the shares to its employees at a price lower than the one at which the shares have been offered to the other shareholders public, the difference between the two prices will be taxed as perquisite (iv) where the shares have been offered only to the employees, the value of perqusite will be the difference between the market price of the shares on the date of acceptance of the offer by the employee and the price at which the shares have been offered.	None
On a perusal of the above, prima facie, it appears that such Circular dealt with the cases where the employer issued shares to the employees at less than the market price.	Reasoning
In the instant case, the Respondent was allotted Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs.)	Reasoning
by the (PG) USA which is different from the allotment of shares.	Reasoning
Hence, in our opinion such Circular has no applicability on the instant case.	Reasoning
Moreover, a Circular cannot be used to introduce a new tax provision in a Statute which was otherwise absent.	Reasoning
17.	None
Alternatively, the Revenue also contended that the case of the Respondent shall come within the ambit of the Section 28(iv) of the IT Act.	Arguments of Respondent
At this juncture, we deem it appropriate, for the sake of convenience, to refer Section 28(iv) of the IT Act which is reproduced herein below 28.	None
Profits and gains of business or profession.	None
The following income shall be chargeable to incometax under the head Profits and gains of business or profession (iv) the value of any benefit or perquisite, whether convertible into money or not, arising from business or the exercise of a profession.	None
On a first look of the said provision, it is apparent that such benefit or perquisite shall have arisen from the business activities or profession whereas in the instant case there is nothing as such.	Reasoning
The applicability of Section 28(iv) is confined only to the case where there is any business or profession related transaction involved.	Reasoning
Hence, the instant case cannot be covered under Section 28(iv) of the IT Act for the purpose of tax liability.	Reasoning
18.	None
To sum up, the Respondent got the Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) and, eventually received an amount on account of its redemption prior to 01.04.2000 on which the amendment of Finance Act, 1999 (27 of 1999) came into force.	Reasoning
In the absence of any express statutory provision regarding the applicability of such amendment from retrospective effect, we do not find any force in the argument of the Revenue that such amendment came into force retrospectively.	Reasoning
It is well established rule of interpretation that taxing provisions shall be construed strictly so that no person who is otherwise not liable to pay tax, be made liable to pay tax.	Reasoning
19.	None
In view of above discussion, we are of the considered view that these instant appeals are devoid of merits and deserve to be dismissed.	Decision
Accordingly, these are hereby dismissed leaving parties to bear their own cost.	Decision
