 Gajendragadkar, J.1.	None
An application was made by the appellant, the management of Delhi Transport Undertaking, to the industrial tribunal, Delhi, for approval of the action which the appellant proposed to take against Jagdish Lal who was in the employment of the appellant as a conductor.	Facts
It appears that on 3 September, 1959 Jagdish Lal was detailed on duty with bus No. 320 on route No. 20A, duty No. 1, along with a traineedriver Inder Raj by name.	Facts
Jagdish Lal refused to join duty on the ground that he did not think it safe to run the bus which was going to put in charge of the traineedriver.	Facts
He insisted that a driver in the regular employment of the appellant should be put in charge of the bus and then he would join duty.	None
This was regarded as an act of insubordination amounting to misconduct and so a chargesheet was served on Jagdish Lal and an enquiry was held.	Facts
At the end of the enquiry the appellant came to the conclusion that Jagdish Lal should be dismissed from service.	Facts
That is way the present application was made by the appellant under S. 33(2)(b) of the Industrial Disputes Act.	Facts
On behalf of the respondent, the union, it was urged before the tribunal that the refusal of Jagdish Lal to join work was justified.	Arguments of Respondent
It was urged on its behalf that the traineedriver was an inexperienced driver and so the appellant was not justified in asking Jagdish Lal to run the bus with the traineedriver.	Arguments of Respondent
The tribunal has substantially upheld the pleas raised by the respondentunion.	None
It has found that Inder Raj was merely a traineedriver and so Jagdish Lal was justified in apprehending danger if the bus was run by him.	None
The tribunal has also held that without the badge Inder Raj could not have run the bus.	Reasoning
It is on these two grounds that the tribunal reached the conclusion that the refusal of Jagdish Lal was justified.	None
That is why the tribunal refused to accord approval to the action proposed to be taken by the appellant against Jagdish Lal.	Issue
It is against this order that the appellant has come to this Court by special leave.	Issue
The first point which has been raised before us by Mr. Bhasin on behalf of the appellant is that the tribunal was obviously under a misconception when it thought that Inder Raj was a traineedriver in the sense that he was inexperienced in driving.	Arguments of Petitioner
It appears that the appellant has started a scheme of training persons who hold licences for driving heavy public service buses in order that when they are put in charge of the appellants buses they should know the routes on which the buses operate and the exigencies and the requirements of the traffic on the said routes.	None
For this purpose persons holding licences entitling them to drive heavy public service vehicles are taken for training.	None
Inder Raj was one of them.	None
It would, therefore, be unreasonable to assume that Inder Raj was a trainee in the sense that he was unfamiliar with driving public service vehicles.	Reasoning
The award clearly gives an impression that the tribunal was satisfied that there was grave risk is allowing Inder Raj to drive the bus, and that proceeded on a misconception as to the the qualifications of Inder Raj in that behalf.	Reasoning
In coming to the conclusion that Jagdish Lal was justified in refusing to join duty the tribunal seems to have overlooked completely the statement made by Jagdish Lal.	Reasoning
He was asked whether he knew that Inder Raj had three years experience of heavy motorvehicle driving and he admitted that he knew.	Reasoning
He, however, pleaded that he apprehended danger even so because he said that he expected that the traineedriver would collide with the railway bridge and hence he refused to go on duty with him.	Reasoning
Having regard to the fact that Inder Raj was a duly qualified driver, we do not see how it could be held that Jagdish Lal was justified in refusing to join duty solely on the ground that a permanent driver was not on duty.	Reasoning
The other point on which the tribunal has relied is about the badge.	Reasoning
The tribunal has observed that without the badge Inder Raj could not have driven the vehicle and it has assumed that Inder Raj was asked to drive the vehicle without a badge.	Reasoning
This again is the result of a complete misconception on the part of the tribunal.	Reasoning
It is true that the Delhi Motor Vehicle Rule 443 provides for the drivers badge but that only means that a person who holds the relevant licence is entitled to have the badge on payment of the fee prescribed by subrule (3) of the said rule.	Reasoning
The tribunal has taken into account the fact that at no stage had Jagdish Lal made it his case that he apprehended that there would be a breach of the rules if Inder Raj was allowed to drive the bus because Inder Raj has no badge.	Reasoning
Mr. Sharma, for the respondents, has taken us through the statements made by Jagdish Lal from stage to stage he has been unable to point out anywhere that this allegation was made.	None
Unfortunately the tribunal appeals to have accepted this argument without noticing the fact that no allegation has been made in that behalf and the appellant had therefore no opportunity to show that there was no substance in that point.	None
Even in the statement filed before the tribunal the respondentunion did not take any point about this badge.	Reasoning
Therefore, the other argument on which the award is based is, in our opinion, wholly unjustified.2.	Reasoning
We have repeatedly pointed out that in dealing with disciplinary matters the tribunals jurisdiction is very limited.	Reasoning
In the present case the tribunal was merely called upon to consider whether a prima facie case had been made out for according approval to the action of the appellant proposed to be taken against Jagdish Lal.	Reasoning
In such a case we do not see how the tribunal was justified in coming to the conclusion that because Inder Raj was a traineedriver Jagdish Lal was justified in refusing to join duty.	Reasoning
In this connexion the tribunal seems to have attached some importance to the conditions on which trainees are admitted in the school started by the appellant.	Reasoning
One of the conditions is that at the end of the training period there is no guarantee of the employment.	Reasoning
That of course is true but that is not to say that the appellant cannot legitimately and reasonably avail itself of the services of these traineedrivers whenever it thought it necessary to do so, e.g., incase emergencies or unexpected circumstances arise.	None
The record shows that such a course is often adopted and provision is made for payment to the traineedrivers whose services are requisitioned.	Reasoning
Therefore, we are satisfied that the appellant was justified in taking the view that the conduct of Jagdish Lal amounted to misconduct and so a prima facie case had been made out in that case.	Reasoning
The application made by the appellant for approval of the proposed action against Jagdish Lal must therefore be allowed.	Decision
The result is that the appeal succeeds, the order passed by the tribunal is set aside and the appellants application made under S. 33(2) is allowed.3.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs.	Decision
