 Altamas Kabir, J. Having regard to the existence of different rent control laws in the State of Maharashtra, The Maharashtra Rent Control Act, 1999, (hereinafter referred to as the 1999 Act) was enacted to unify, consolidate and amend the law relating to the control of rents and repairs of certain premises and of eviction and for encouraging the construction of new houses by assuring a fair return on the investment by landlords and to provide for matters connected with the said purposes.	Facts
The said Act came into force on 31st March, 2000, and repealed the existing Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, 1947, the Central Provinces and Berar Regulation of Letting of Accommodation Act, 1946, including the Central Provinces and Berar Letting of Houses and Rent Control Order, 1949 and the Hyderabad Houses (Rent, Eviction and Lease) Control Act, 1954.	Facts
With a view to achieving the objects for which the Act was enacted, certain premises, as indicated in Section 3 thereof, were exempted from the provisions of the Act.	Facts
The exclusion of certain premises from the protection provided under the Act gave rise to litigation in which challenge was thrown by different litigants to the vires of the new Act as also Section 3 (1) (b) thereof as being arbitrary and discriminatory and without having any nexus with the object sought to be achieved by the Act.	Facts
Of the several writ petitions filed in the Bombay High Court, the Writ Petition of M s. Crompton Greaves Ltd. was taken up for decision and it was held that the classification made in Section 3 with regard to different types of tenants was on the basis of an intelligible differentia having nexus with the object sought to be achieved by the Act.	Facts
It was held that the provisions of the new Act were intra vires and did not offend Article 14 of the Constitution.	Facts
Several writ petitions were thereafter decided on the basis of the decision arrived at in the aforesaid writ petition filed by M s. Crompton Greaves Ltd. and some of them have been carried to this Court by way of Special Leave Petitions which are now being analogously heard as civil appeals along with a writ petition filed under Article 32 of the Constitution, being No.164/2003, wherein also the vires of Section 3 (1) (b) of the new Rent Act has been challenged.	Facts
The common grievance in all these appeals and in the writ petition is with regard to the constitutionality of Section 3 (1) (b) of the Maharashtra Rent Act, 1999 which inter alia replaced the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Act, 1947.	Issue
Mr. Ranjit Kumar, learned senior advocate, who appeared for the appellants in Civil Appeal No. 8015/2002, as also for the intervenors in one of the other appeals, argued the matter extensively and his submissions were generally adopted by the other appellants and the writ petitioner with a few variations.	Arguments of Petitioner
In order to appreciate Mr. Kumars submissions, the provisions of Section 3 (1)(a) and (b) of the 1999 Act are reproduced herein below Exemption.	None
(1) This Act shall not apply (a) to any premises belonging to the Government or a local authority or apply as against the Government to any tenancy, licence or other like relationship created by a grant from or a licence given by the Government in respect of premises requisitioned or taken on lease or on licence by the Government, including any premises taken on behalf of the Government on the basis of tenancy or of licence or other like relationship by, or in the name of any officer subordinate to the Government authorized in this behalf but it shall apply in respect of premises let, or given on licence, to the Government or a local authority or taken on behalf of the Government on such basis by, or in the name of, such officer (b) to any premises let or sublet to banks, or any Public Sector Undertakings or any Corporation established by or under any Central or State Act, or foreign missions, international agencies, multinational companies, and private limited companies and public limited having a paid up share capital of rupees one crore or more.	None
Explanation  For the purpose of this clause the expression bank means,  (i) The State Bank of India constituted under the State Bank of India Act, 1955 (ii) A subsidiary bank as defined in the State Bank of India (Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959 (iii) A corresponding new bank constituted under section 3 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 or under section 3 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertaking) Act, 1980, or (iv) Any other bank, being a scheduled bank as defined in clause (e) of section 2 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.	None
It was contended that the provisions of Section 3(1)(b) of the 1999 Act offend the equality clause enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged that the aforesaid provisions sought to distinguish between different types of tenants and in particular private limited companies and public limited companies having a paid up share capital of rupees one crore or more.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged that the worth of a company could not always be assessed on the basis of the paid up share capital and that a more correct assessment could be arrived at on the basis of the net worth of the company.	Arguments of Petitioner
While a company having a paid up share capital of rupees one crore or more, may not be making large profits, a company with a lesser amount of paid up share capital, may be making larger profits.	Arguments of Petitioner
While the former was denied the protection of the Act, the latter was protected thereunder.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged that the distinction sought to be made was not on the basis of any intelligible differentia having a reasonable nexus with the object sought to be achieved by the new enactment.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was pointed out that the new Act created a divide between different categories of tenants, some of whom were afforded the protection under the 1999 Act while some were excluded.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that if the object of the Act was to provide for better housing facilities in terms of the National Housing Policy then all landlords should have been treated on an equal footing without benefiting only a certain affluent class of landlords.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
The next contention which was advanced on behalf of the appellants was that even between banks, a discriminatory policy was adopted.	Arguments of Petitioner
While excluding banks and public sector undertakings established by or under any State or Central Act, scheduled banks were treated separately, thereby creating a privileged class of landlords.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that no rational basis had been indicated for making such classification.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that banks generally require large spaces for their business activities and if they were excluded from the protection of the Act, they would become easy targets for eviction and in the event of their eviction, it would be difficult for them to acquire new premises of equal or similar dimensions in the same vicinity which could even result in the banks having to close down their business.	Arguments of Petitioner
Another submission advanced on behalf of the appellants was that since the banks covered by clauses (i) (ii) and (iii) of Section 3 (1) (b) of the 1999 Act, all come within the definition of State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution, by invoking the rule of ejusdem generis, the fourth category which referred to scheduled banks as defined in clause (e) of Section 2 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, should also answer the description of State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, since scheduled banks were not State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution, they had been wrongly included with other banks and excluded from the protection of the 1999 Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the classification of banks under different categories amounted to institutional classification and discrimination within the same class which would be hit by the provisions of Article 14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged that a similar matter fell for consideration of this Court in the case of Motor General Traders and Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
vs. State of Andhra Pradesh and Ors. reported in (1984) 1 SCC 222 , wherein a similar provision of the Andhra Pradesh Buildings (Lease, Rent and Eviction) Control Act, 1960 fell for consideration of this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 32 of the said Act contained a similar provision excluding certain premises from the ambit of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said provision reads as follows Act not to apply to certain buildings.	None
The provisions of this Act shall not apply (a) to any building owned by the Government (b) to any building constructed on and after August 26, 1957.	None
It was sought to be contended that the distinction made between buildings constructed before and after the cutoff date was wholly unreasonable and was not founded on any intelligible differentia having a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the statute in question.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was pointed out that although the said provision had been held by the High Court in earlier proceedings to be intra vires, this Court after considering the matter at length was of the view that clause (b) of Section 32 was violative of Article 14 of the Constitution as it sought to create a privileged class of landlords without any rational basis, as the incentive to build which provided a nexus for a reasonable classification of such class of landlords, no longer existed by lapse of time in the case of the majority of such landlords.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was observed that while the classification may be founded on different basis what is necessary is that there must be a nexus between the basis of classification and the object of the Act under consideration.	None
Reliance was also placed on another decision of this Court in the case of Rattan Arya and Ors.	None
vs. State of Tamil Nadu and Anr., (1986) 3 SCC 385 , wherein Section 30 (ii) of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960 was under challenge.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said provision exempted any residential building or part thereof occupied by any tenant, if the monthly rent paid by him exceeded Rs.250/.	None
As was observed in the said decision, the intention of the Legislature clearly was that the protection of the beneficent provision of the Act should be available only to small tenants paying rent exceeding Rs.250/ per month, as they belong to the weaker sections of the community and needed protection against exploitation by rapacious landlords.	None
Following its decision in Motor General Traders case (supra), this Court struck down the said provision as being violative of Article 14 of the Constitution being entirely inconsistent with the protection given to tenants of nonresidential buildings who were in a position to pay much higher rents than the rents which were paid by those who were in occupation of residential buildings.	None
Mr. Ranjit Kumar in his usual fairness also referred to the decision of this Court in the case of D.C. Bhatia and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
vs. Union of India and Anr., (1995) 1 SCC 104 , in which the learned Judges were considering the validity of Section 3 (c) the Delhi Rent Act, 1958, which was introduced by the Delhi Rent Control (Amendment) Act, 1988, so as to exclude from the operation of the Rent Act, premises whose monthly rent exceeded Rs.	Arguments of Petitioner
3,500/.	Arguments of Petitioner
After considering several decisions of this Court in case of similar provisions in other State enactments, this Court distinguished the view that had earlier been taken in Rattan Aryas case (supra) and held that tenants who could afford to pay a sum of Rs.	Arguments of Petitioner
42,000/ per year could not be said to belong at that point of time to the weaker sections of the community so as to get the protection under the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, it was for the Legislature to decide as to which section of people should be protected and what should be the basis of classification namely, income, rent, etc.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ranjit Kumar, however, pointed out that in D.C. Bhatias case (supra), the benefit of protection had been given to one class of persons, namely, those whose monthly rents were less than 3,500/ and a reasonable classification had been made in the context of the economy prevalent at the relevant time.	Arguments of Petitioner
8.	Arguments of Petitioner
In respect of the case made out in the appeal preferred by Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd., Mr. Ranjit Kumar, who appeared for the intervenors, submitted that a duty had been cast on the State under Article 39 (b) of the Constitution to direct its policy towards securing that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that along with residential buildings, there was also need for other establishments, such as the one being run by the appellant, which also require the protection of the Rent Control Act, but had been excluded by virtue of Section 3 (1) (b) thereof.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Jaspal Singh, learned senior counsel, who appeared for the Bombay Mercantile Cooperative Bank Ltd., while adopting Mr. Ranjit Kumars submissions, added a new dimension to the said submissions on certain facts which were peculiar to the said Bank alone.	Arguments of Petitioner
9.	Arguments of Petitioner
He tried to persuade us that the Bank had been included as a scheduled bank in the Reserve Bank of India Act on 1st September, 1988 whereas the premises in question had been let out to the Bank in 1979.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Jaspal Singh, since the letting referred to in Section 3 (b) was in respect of a scheduled bank, and in the instant case, since the Bank was not a scheduled bank when the premises had been let out to it, the provisions of the 1999 Act could have no application to the Bank.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also submitted that having regard to the wording of clause (b) of Section 3(1) of the Act, only those banks or public sector undertakings or any corporation established by or under any Central or State Act could be included within its ambit.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Andhyarujina, learned senior advocate, adopted a pragmatic approach to the problem.	Arguments of Petitioner
While adopting Mr. Ranjit Kumars submissions, he did seek to urge that in the definition of the expression premises a major change from the 1947 Act had been introduced in the 1999 Act in that the word land had been excluded from the said definition.	Arguments of Petitioner
He urged that the Legislature had consciously omitted land from the purview of the 1999 Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Andhyarujina submitted that in the event the appeal preferred by the company was dismissed, suitable time may be given to the company to vacate the premises.	Arguments of Petitioner
As an interim arrangement, Mr. Andhyarujina submitted that his client was ready to pay mesne profits to the landlord at the rate of Rs.60,000/ per month.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Shujaat Ullah Khan, learned advocate, who appeared for the appellants in Civil Appeal No. 1825/2005, submitted that the credit society became a cooperative society in 1941 and was subsequently converted into a multistate cooperative society.	Arguments of Petitioner
In effect, the society was a cooperative bank, but following the doctrine of ejusdem generis only those banks which were State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution and had been included in clauses (i) (ii) and (iii) of Section 3 (1) (b) of the 1999 Act stood excluded from the provisions of the Act. 10.	Arguments of Petitioner
Relying on a Full Bench decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of Shamrao Vithal Coop.	Arguments of Petitioner
Bank Ltd. and Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
vs. Padubidri Pattabhiram Bhat and Anr.,	Arguments of Petitioner
AIR 1993 Bombay 91, Mr. Khan submitted that since the appellant was not State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution, it could not be excluded from the protection afforded by the 1999 Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Besides his aforesaid submission, Mr. Khan also adopted all the submissions advanced by Mr. Ranjit Kumar.	Arguments of Petitioner
As indicated hereinbefore, along with the civil appeals, a separate writ petition, being No. 164/2003, had been filed by the Central Bank of India also challenging the vires of Section 3 (1) (b) of the 1999 Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Appearing for the Bank, Ms. J.S. Wad submitted that since the Bank was a nationalized bank, whatever protection was made available to the government establishments should also be made available to the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
The submissions made on behalf of the appellants as also the writ petitioner were strongly opposed by Mr. Raju Ramachandran, learned senior advocate, appearing for the respondentslandlords in Civil Appeal No. 7594/2004.	None
Referring to Mr. Jaspal Singhs submissions, he pointed out that there was a basic fallacy in Mr. Singhs contention since banking was a Central subject included at Item No. 45 of the 1st List of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution and it is only public sector undertakings which could be established under a State Act.	None
Also referring to the preamble of the 1999 Act, Mr. Ramachandran pointed out that Section 3 of the Act had been enacted in consonance thereof with the intention of ensuring a fair return to the landlords who were ready to invest in the construction of new buildings to provide greater accommodation.	None
It was contended that Section 3 of the Act was integral to the purpose of the Act and all premises which the Legislature considered to be appropriate had been afforded protection under the 1999 Act.	None
It was pointed out that the same would be available from Section 2 (1) of the Act which indicates that the Act, in the first instance, would apply to premises let for the purpose of residence, education, business, trade or storage in the area specified in Schedule 1 and Schedule II.	None
No special reservation was made in respect of premises set apart for residential purposes.	None
Even in the preamble, the expression houses has been used generally and does not specify residential houses in particular, as has been urged on behalf of the appellants.	None
There was, therefore, no discrimination between premises of different types and only a reasonable classification has been made with regard to companies where the paid up capital share had been taken to be the yard stick for excluding certain companies from the protection provided under the Act.	None
It was submitted that while the net worth of companies fluctuate, the paid up share capital was stable and was more concrete for the purpose of assessment of a companys worth.	Reasoning
The Legislature had to strike a balance at a point which it considered to be just and fair and accordingly provided for exclusion of those companies which it felt could afford to either pay higher rents or procure alternate accommodation in the present scenario.	None
It was submitted that having regard to the reasonable approach of the Legislature, it could not be contended that the provisions of Section 3 (1) (b) of the 1999 Act were arbitrary and or discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Ramachandran submitted that the arguments now sought to be advanced on behalf of the appellants and the writ petitioner on Article 14 of the Constitution on account of the classification made between categories of tenants was no longer available to the appellants having regard to the views expressed by this Court in Delhi Cloth General Mills Limited vs. S. Paramjit Singh and Anr., (1990) 4 SCC 723 and in D.C.	Arguments of Respondent
Bhatias case (supra) in which it has been categorically indicated that it is for the Legislature to decide whether or not any section of tenants should be protected in any way by law.	Arguments of Respondent
For the said purpose, the Legislature could identify the section of the people who needed protection and decide how the classification was to be done or what would be the cut off point for the purpose of making such classification.	Arguments of Respondent
The Court could only consider whether the classification had been done on an understandable basis having regard to the object of the statute.	Arguments of Respondent
The Court would not question its validity on the ground of lack of legislative wisdom.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Ramachandran ended his submissions by referring to a Constitution Bench judgment of this Court in the case of Kedar Nath Bajoria vs. State of West Bengal, (1954)	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 30 , wherein it was stated as follows Now, it is well settled that the equal protection of the laws guaranteed by Article 14 of the Constitution does not mean that all laws must be general in character and universal in application and that the State is no longer to have the power of distinguishing and classifying persons or things for the purposes of legislation.	Arguments of Respondent
To put it simply, all that is required in class or special legislation is that the legislative classification must not be arbitrary but should be based on an intelligible principle having a reasonable relation to the object which the legislature seeks to attain.	Arguments of Respondent
If the classification on which the legislation is founded fulfils this requirement, then the differentiation which the legislation makes between the class or persons or things to which it applies and other persons or things left outside the purview of the legislation cannot be regarded as a denial of the equal protection of the law, Learned counsel appearing for the State adopted Mr. Ramachandrans submissions.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr.Soli J. Sorabjee, learned senior advocate, who appeared for the landlordsrespondents in the appeal filed by Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (Civil Appeal Nos. 48304831/2005) urged that the Legislature was fully aware of the prevailing economic conditions while including public sector undertakings with those institutions which were kept out of the protection of the 1999 Act.	Arguments of Respondent
He urged that petrol pumps, such as the one being run by the appellant, require a good deal of open space, which the landlord could better utilize for getting higher returns.	Arguments of Respondent
The amount of rent paid for the utilization of such lands were extremely meagre in relation to the value of the property and the very object of the 1999 Act would be frustrated if such lands were not kept out of the purview of the Act so that the same could be utilized by the landlords for constructing new buildings which would ensure a fair return to them.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Sorabjee submitted that some of the petrol pumps were of necessity, situated in prime areas within metropolitan cities and the Legislature had very correctly excluded them from the protection of the 1999 Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Much the same views were expressed by Mr. Gaurav Agarwal, who appeared for the respondent No.2 in Civil Appeal No.	Arguments of Respondent
483031of 2005.	Arguments of Respondent
It was pointed out that 1228 Sq.Ft. of a commercial premises in the Fort area in Mumbai had been let out initially for a sum of Rs.2732/ per month and the present valuation in terms of the Valuers report suggested that the rent should be Rs.2,45,600/ per month.	Arguments of Respondent
As will be evident from the submissions made on behalf of the appellants and the writ petitioner, the main challenge is to the constitutionality of Section 3 (1) (b) of the 1999 Act.	None
In view of the categorization of different premises, some of which have been excluded from the protection of the Act, an attempt has been made to establish that the Legislature had acted arbitrarily in discriminating between the different sets of premises and tenants and in prescribing the standard for the purpose of excluding certain companies from the protection of the Act.	Reasoning
Although, earlier a view had been taken by this Court that prescribing such a standard or differentiating between categories of tenancies was violative of Article 14 of the Constitution, the subsequent view taken by this Court is that so long as the classification sought to be made was based on an intelligible differentia and had a nexus with the object sought to be achieved by the statute, the same would not offend the equality clause contained in Article 14 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Resultingly, it is quite clear that it is within the legislative competence of the State to enact laws for the protection of certain sections of society on the basis of economic criteria and so long as it does not result in unreasonable classification, it is for the Legislature to decide whom it should include or exclude from the application of such laws.	Reasoning
Although, the decision to exclude private limited companies and public limited companies having a paid up share capital of Rs.	Reasoning
One crore from the protection of the Act has been questioned on the ground of discrimination, we are unable to accept such contention, since in our view, it is in consonance with the object sought to be achieved by the Act as indicated in its preamble.	Reasoning
In order to achieve such object, a cutoff point has to be settled and the Legislature in its wisdom has settled such cutoff point in excluding companies having a paid up share capital of Rs.	Reasoning
One crore or more from the protection of the Act.	Reasoning
We are also unable to accept the contention that the paid up share capital of the company is not a fair indicator of a companys worth and that its net worth is a better indicator.	Reasoning
As submitted by Mr. Ramachandran, the net worth of a company may vary from time to time, but its paid up share capital is more stable.	Reasoning
Which of the two methods ought to have been adopted by the Legislature is not for us to decide once we have taken a view that the method as adopted is not arbitrary or violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Of the two methods available, the Legislature has chosen the one which appeared to it to be reasonable.	Reasoning
The other submission relating to the inclusion of scheduled banks, along with other banks, which have been excluded from the protection of the Act, is also without substance since clause (iv) of Section 3 (1) (b) is, in our view, of general application intended to cover all banks forming part of the Schedule of the Reserve Bank of India Act which may or may not overlap those banks which have been indicated in clauses (i) (ii) and (iii).	Reasoning
The submission of Mr. Jaspal Singh that the 1999 Act would not apply to the appellantbank represented by him, appears to be an argument of desperation and not of conviction.	Reasoning
Once the Act of 1999 was enacted and came into force, it would have equal application to all premises let out either before or after the commencement of the Act.	Reasoning
The issues raised before us have been elaborately considered by the High Court, and, in our view, no fault can be found with the findings arrived at by the High Court.	Reasoning
The provisions of Section 3(1)(b) of the Maharashtra Rent Control Act, 1999, are intra vires and as has been held by the Bombay High Court, they do not violate Article 14 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
In our view, there is no merit in these appeals nor in the writ petition and the same are accordingly dismissed.	Decision
In this context, we are required to take into consideration Mr. Andhyarujinas submission for sufficient time to be given to his client to vacate the premises during which the interim arrangement as proposed for payment of higher rent could be continued.	Decision
Considering the fact that Mr.Andhyarujinas client is operating a petrol pump, which will require some time to acquire a new place and to construct the necessary infrastructure therein, we grant time to Mr. Andhyarujinas client till 31st December, 2007, to vacate the premises occupied by them.	Decision
The parties in Civil Appeal Nos. 48304831/2005 will be at liberty to have the question of mesne profits finally decided by the trial court which is requested to dispose of the matter at an early date.	Decision
Till final determination of the matter relating to mesne profits by the trial court, Mr. Andhyarujinas client shall pay to the landlords mesne profits at the rate of Rs.60,000/ per month as agreed from the date of the decree till the date of vacating the premises.	Decision
The amount that may be found due on the aforesaid basis from the date of the decree till the date of this order shall be paid by Mr. Andhyarujinas client to the landlords in three equal instalments within a period of three months from the date of this judgment along with the mesne profits payable each month under this judgment.	Decision
The first of such instalments is to be paid by the 7th day of September, 2006 and thereafter by the 7th day of October, 2006 and 7th day of November, 2006, respectively.	Decision
In case of default in payment of any of the instalment s or the current mesne profits, the time given to Mr. Andhyarujinas client to vacate the premises shall stand revoked and the decree for possession will become executable forthwith.	Decision
Mr. Andhyarujinas client will file the usual undertaking in this Court in the above regard within four weeks from today.	Decision
These directions will not prevent Mr. Andhyarujinas client from negotiating with the landlord for grant of a fresh tenancy on fresh terms and conditions, if so advised.	Decision
Having regard to the nature of the issues involved in these appeals and the writ petition, the parties will bear their own costs.	Decision
