 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted.	None
Question2.	Issue
Whether Paddy Husk and Rice Husk connote the same commodity or not is the question involved herein.	Issue
An overview Respondents, who own and operate their manufacturing units, use Paddy Husk as fuel in their respective factories.	Facts
They were assessed for payment of sales tax in terms of various notifications issued by the State of Uttar Pradesh (for short, the State) from time to time under Section 3D of the Uttar Pradesh Trade Tax Act (for short, the Act).4.	Facts
Before we advert to the rival contentions of the parties, we may notice certain statutory provisions.	Facts
Section 3 of the Act is the charging provision.	Facts
The rate of tax is determined by the State in exercise of its power conferred on it under Section 3A of the Act.	Facts
Section 3D of the Act which is material for our purpose, reads as under Section 3D  Levy of trade tax on purchase of sales of certain goods(1)	Facts
Except as provided in subsection (2), there shall be levied and paid, for each assessment year or part thereof, a tax on the turnover, to be determined in the prescribed manner(a) of first purchases of opium, at such rate not exceeding thirtyfive percent (b) of first purchases of such other goods at such rate not exceeding(i) the maximum rate for the time being specified in Section 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 in respect of goods declared by Section 14 of the Act to be of special importance in interState trade or commerce, and(ii) twenty percent, in respect of other goods.and with effect from such date, as the State Government may, by notification in the Gazette, specify in relation to purchases made within Uttar Pradesh by a dealer (whether on his own account or on account of any one else), or through a dealer acting as a purchasing agent.	Facts
Indisputably, the State in exercise of its power conferred upon it under clause (b) of subsection (1) of Section 3D of the Act, had been issuing notifications from time to time specifying the rate of tax and the point thereof.	Facts
One of such notifications was issued on 7.9.1981, Item No. 18 thereof reads as under Rice polish, rice bran and rice husk.	Facts
By reason of a notification dated 5.6.1985, inter alia, the said item was amended to the following effect.	None
Rice polish, rice bran and rice husk, but excluding deoiled rice bran, deoiled rice polish or deoiled rice husk.	None
In supersession of the earlier notifications, however, the State yet again amended the said item with effect from 6.6.1996 by a notification of the said date, which reads as under Rice polish, rice bran, rice husk and paddy husk but excluding deoiled rice bran, deoiled rice polish, deoiled rice husk and deoiled paddy husk.	Facts
4 at first purchase.	None
However, on or about 15.1.2002, the said entry was given a new look and in stead and place of entry No.18, new entry being entry No.15 was inserted, pursuant whereto and in furtherance whereof the rate of interest was increased from four per cent to eight per cent.	Facts
The said entry reads as under Rice polish, Rice bran, Rice husk and paddy husk but excluding deoiled rice bran, deoiled rice polish, deoiled rice husk and deoiled paddy husk.	None
However, an amendment was carried out in the description of goods as also the rate of tax by a notification issued on 30th September, 2000.	None
Precedents The procedure relating to manufacture of rice from paddy visvis the exemption clauses contained in the relevant notifications came up for consideration before the High Court from time to time.	None
We would refer to a few of the decisions rendered by the Allahabad High Court and Madhya Pradesh High Court to which our attention has been drawn by the learned counsel for the parties.	None
One of such decisions is Commissioner of Sales Tax, U.P. v. Naveen Traders 36 Sales Tax Cases 440 wherein, the High Court of Allahabad, while determining the question in regard to the meaning of the words Bhusa and Bhusi for which exemption was claimed, held as under The assessee owns a rice mill.	None
It purchased paddy and after processing it obtained rice.	None
Thereafter, the rice so obtained is subjected to polishing process.	None
As a result of this process, the outer surface of the rice is scraped off.	None
The scraping so obtained, which is in powder form is called rice bran and in Etawah district, where this mill is situate, this product is also known as polish.	None
The bran so obtained is used for either extracting oil or for feeding cattle.	None
By Notification No.	None
ST911/X dated 31st March, 1956, the State Government in exercise of powers conferred by Section 4 of the U. P. Sales Tax Act exempted with effect from 1st April, 1956, amongst other articles cattle fodder including green fodder from payment of tax.	None
This notification was amended by Notification No. ST3471/X dated 16th July, 1956, and for the entry cattle fodder and green fodder the following was substitutedCattle fodder including green fodder, chuni, bhusi, chhilka, chokar, cotton seed, gowar and oilcake.	None
The assessee claimed that rice bran was exempt under this notification.	None
This contention was neither accepted by the Sales Tax Officer nor by the Assistant Commissioner, Sales Tax.	None
The revising authority, however, took the view that rice bran was nothing but bhusi of rice, because it was the inner husk of the rice and as such was exempt from tax.	None
We are unable to agree with the view of the revising authority.	None
Rice with its outer husk is known as paddy.	None
After the husk is removed, the product is known as rice.	None
Rice does not have any inner husk, as has been held by the revising authority.	None
Moreover, it is clear from the findings recorded that rice bran in respect of which exemption is claimed is powdered rice, which is obtained in the polishing process.	None
It is difficult to appreciate how this powdered form of rice can be termed as bhusi of rice.	None
Bhusi is nothing but a fine form of bhusa, which in turn is obtained by thrashing of stems, leaves and the outer husk of grain.	None
The rice bran in question, as has been seen, is obtained during the polishing process of the grain itself.	None
It is not a product obtained from stalk, leaves or the husk of paddy or rice.	None
The Court while applying the common parlance test to the terminologies Bhusa and Bhusi opined that they are commodities obtained from stalk, leaves and husk of grains.	None
A similar view was taken by another Division Bench of the said High Court in Commissioner of Sales Tax v. Jamuna Prasad 36 STC 442 wherein relying on or on the basis of an earlier decision of the said Court in Naveen Traders, N.D. Ojha, J. (as His Lordship then was) speaking for the Bench, opined The notification dated 16th July, 1956, exempts from sales tax cattle fodder, which term is defined to include green fodder, chuni, bhusi, chhilka, chokar, cotton seed, gowar and oilcake.	None
In Commissioner of Sales Tax, U. P., Lucknow v. Naveen Traders, Etawah 1973 U.P.T.C. 215, a Division Bench of this Court has held that rice with its outer husk is known as paddy and after the husk is removed the product is known as rice.	None
Rice does not have any inner husk.	None
The rice bran in respect of which exemption was claimed was nothing but powdered rice.	None
Bhusa and bhusi as understood in common parlance are commodities obtained from stalk, leaves and husk of grains.	None
Rice bran cannot be treated as bhusi of rice.	None
In view of this decision, the question referred to us has to be answered against the assessee.	None
The contention of the assessee therein that rice bran was cattle fodder, however, was directed to be considered afresh on the premise that the same involves a wider question.	None
The Madhya Pradesh High Court had also an occasion to consider the said question in Chordia Kavelu Udyog v. State of M.P. Two Ors.	None
(1988) 69 STC 49 .	None
N.D. Ojha, Chief Justice, relied upon the decision of the Allahabad High Court in Naveen Traders to hold Husk according to dictionary means, inter alia, bhusi.	None
The question as to whether rice bran could be called bhusi or husk, came up for consideration before a Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court in Commissioner of Sales Tax, U.P. v. Naveen Traders 1975 36 STC 440.	None
It was held that bhusa or bhusi as are understood in common parlance, are commodities obtained from stalk, leaves and husk of grains.	None
Rice, with its outer husk, is known as paddy.	None
After the husk is removed, the product is known as rice.	None
Rice does not have any inner husk.	None
Rice bran is powdered rice and is obtained during the polishing process of the grain itself and is not a product obtained from stalk, leaves or the husk of paddy or rice.	None
The same view was taken by another Division Bench of the said Court in Commissioner of Sales Tax v. Jamuna Prasad 1975 36 STC 442.	None
It was held that bran cannot be included in the category of bhusi.	None
Again the same view was reiterated in Commissioner of Sales Tax, U.P. v. Dhannamal Ramgopal 1975 36 STC 445.	None
We agree with this view.5.	None
Reliance was placed by the learned counsel for the petitioner on an extract from Shri A. C. Dattas book A Class Book of Botany attached as annexure D to the writ petition which indicates that on removing the husk,, a brownish membraneous layer is seen adherent to the grain and that this layer is made up of the seed coat and the wall of the fruit fused together.	None
The said extract further indicates that rice grain and the husk are together known as the paddy grain.6.	None
It would thus be seen that the seed coat has not been treated as an ingredient separate from rice, otherwise it would have stated that the rice grain, its seed coat and the husk are together known as the paddy grain.	None
The seed coat, even according to the learned author of the book aforesaid thus constitutes a part of rice.	None
The said question also came up for consideration before a Three Judge Bench of the Trade Tax Tribunal.	None
Shri R.N. Singh and Shri Dau Dayal, Members, Trade Tax Tribunal, Moradabad held in favour of the assessee stating that paddy hust and rice husk are different commodities.	Arguments of Respondent
But Shri Y.C. Gupta, Member of the Tribunal held in favour of the Revenue stating that they are the same commodity.	None
The High Court, while exercising the revisional jurisdiction at the instance of the Revenue, affirmed the majority decision of the Tribunal.	None
These appeals are against the judgments of the High Court.	None
Submissions Mr. Sunil Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of appellant, would contend whether factually or conceptually and or legally decided or judicially determined, Paddy Husk and Rice Husk denote the same commodity and in that view of the matter, the word Paddy Husk must be held to have been notified by the State of Uttar Pradesh from the very beginning for the purpose of levy of sales tax, Dehusking of paddy, Mr. Gupta would contend, is a crushing process which when undertaken, the grain is left which is rice and the second process thereof is the sheathing of the rice (grain) whereby the brow coating on the rice is eliminated which is commonly known as Rice Bran, Rice Husk or Rice polish.	Arguments of Petitioner
The decisions of Allahabad High Court and the Madhya Pradesh High Court, it was argued, having categocially noticed the process of husking and having laid down that rice does not have any other husk, the impugned judgment cannot be sustained.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Gupta urged this Court to agree with the minority opinion of the Tribunal contending that rice bran or rice polish being not husk and their being no other inner husk of rice, the view taken by the majority Members of the Tribunal and consequently by the High Court suffers from a legal infirmity.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Dhruv Agrawal, and Mr. Rakesh K. Khanna, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents, on the other hand, would contend that for the purpose of levy of sales tax, rice husk and paddy husk had all along been treated to be different commodities, as would appear from Section 14(1) of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956.	Arguments of Respondent
Relying on or on the basis of the said distinction, the learned counsel would contend, that as paddy husk was included for the first time to be an item in respect whereof sales tax became leviable by reason of the notification dated 6.6.1996, any assessment or demand of tax prior thereto must be held to be wholly illegal and without jurisdiction.	Arguments of Respondent
The said notification of 1996 as also the subsequent notifications, it was urged, were not clarificatory in nature as tax has been levied thereby which, therefore, must be held to be a substantive provision.	Arguments of Respondent
Application of Statute Precedents At the threshold, we must notice the definition of husk the dictionary meaning whereof is the dry outer covering of certain fruits or seeds of plants the outer or worthless part of anything.	None
The Act is a taxing statute.	None
The notifications have been issued thereunder.	None
Concededly, tax becomes payable at such rate and at such point as may be directed by reason of the notifications issued by the State Government from time to time.	None
It may not be correct to contend that a notification imposing any fiscal liability can be imposed upon a dealer by way of clarification or otherwise.	None
A tax must be levied having regard to the provisions contained in Article 265 of the Constitution of India, i.e., by authority of law.	None
The power to impose tax must be express and no equity can be claimed in the matter of levy of tax.	None
One has to look merely at what is clearly stated in the statute.	None
Imposition of tax is permissible only in terms of the provisions of statute.	None
Reasonable taxation is a part of the doctrine of good governance.	None
In Mumbai Agricultural Produce Marked Committee v. Hindustan Lever Ltd. (2008) 5 SCC 575 , this Court referring to this Courts decision in Jindal Stainless Ltd. (2) v. State of Haryana (2006) 7 SCC 241 , stated the law, thus A finding of fact has been arrived at by the High Court that no service was being rendered by the State.	None
If no service is being rendered, even no fee could have been levied.	None
It has been so held by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Jindal Stainless Ltd. and Anr.	None
v. State of Haryana and Ors.	None
(2006) 7 SCC 241 in the following terms 40.	None
Tax is levied as a part of common burden.	None
The basis of a tax is the ability or the capacity of the tax payer to pay.	None
The principle behind the levy of a tax is the principle of ability or capacity.	None
In the case of a tax, there is no identification of a specific benefit and even if such identification is there, it is not capable of direct measurement.	None
In the case of a tax, a particular advantage, if it exists at all, is incidental to the States action.	None
It is assessed on certain elements of business, such as, manufacture, purchase, sale, consumption, use, capital, etc.	None
but its payment is not a condition precedent.	None
It is not a term or condition of a licence.	None
A fee is generally a term of a licence.	None
A tax is a payment where the special benefit, if any, is converted into common burden.	None
If an entry contained in a notification imposing tax is ambiguous, the assessee cannot suffer therefor.	None
In their decisions, the Allahabad and Madhya Pradesh High Courts to which we have adverted to hereto before, while stating that nothing is known as rice husk, however, opined that rice polish and rice brown are the same thing.	None
Although the said decisions were rendered long time back, no attempt was made by the State to clearly state that rice husk is synonym to paddy husk.	None
It was necessary in view of the fact that admittedly paddy and rice are different commodities.	None
It has been held to be so in a decision of this Court in Ganesh Trading Company, Karnal v. State of Haryana Anr.	None
(1974) 3 SCC 620 in the following words Now, the question for our decision is whether it could be said that when paddy was dehusked and rice produced, its identity remained.	None
It was true that rice was produced out of paddy but it is not true to say that paddy continued to be paddy even after dehusking.	None
It had changed its identity.	None
Rice is not known as paddy.	None
It is a misnomer to call rice as paddy.	None
They are two different things in ordinary parlance.	None
Hence quite clearly when paddy is dehusked and rice produced, there has been a change in the identity of the goods.	None
Our View As paddy and rice are considered to be the separate commodities, paddy husk cannot be treated to be rice husk.	None
Not only in the notification dated 7.9.1981 but also in the notification dated 5.6.1985 paddy husk is not mentioned.	None
By reason of notification dated 6.6.1996 paddy husk was inserted.	None
Even then, the rice husk was not deleted.	None
No explanation was offered therefor.	None
Both rice husk and paddy husk, thus, found place in the notification.	None
Indisputably, therefore, paddy husk was subjected to for the first time by reason of the said notification dated 6.6.1996.	None
Yet again, while giving a purported new look to the entry in the notification dated 15.1.2000, the words rice husk and paddy husk have respectively been mentioned.	None
Even then no attempt was made to issue any clarification.	None
Two expressions having been used ordinarily two different meanings should be assigned thereto.	None
If by reason of a notification, taxes are sought to be imposed upon a new commodity applying Heydons Rules (3 Co. Rep. 7a 76 E.R. 637), it must be held that the mischief was sought to be remedied thereby.	None
It is, therefore, difficult to agree with Mr. Gupta that rice husk and paddy husk denote the same commodity.	None
We may place on record that schedule was annexed to the notification prescribing rate to the U.P. Value Added Tax Ordinance, 2007 specifying the exempted goods, item No.4 whereof is as under Acquatic feed poultry feed including balanced poultry feed cattle feed including balanced cattle feed and cattle fodder including green fodder, chuni, bhusi, Chhilka, choker, javi, gower, deoiled rice polish, deoiled paddy husk or outer covering of paddy acquatic, poultry and cattle feed supplement, concentrate and additives thereof wheat bran and deoiled cake but excluding oil cake rice polish rice bran and rice husk.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
It is, therefore, evident that rice husk is still considered by the Government of Uttar Pradesh to be a different commodity.	None
Even from the perusal of the Decision of the Chordia Kavelu Udyog v. State of Madhya Pradesh Two Ors. 1988 (69) STC 49 , it would appear that A Class Book of Botany was referred to therein which indicated that on removing the husk, a brownish membranous layer is seen adherent to the grain and that this layer is made up of the seed coat and the wall of the fruit fused together.	None
If, according to the Government of Uttar Pradesh, rice husk is this cover which further requires husking, no exception thereto can be taken.	Reasoning
When a paddy is dehusked, it becomes paddy husk and when the rice is dehusked, it becomes rice husk.	Reasoning
There are two other aspects of the matter which cannot be lost sight of.	None
If something is included in the Schedule which is nonexistent, no tax can be levied thereupon.	Reasoning
Furthermore, if there is a doubt or dispute as to whether paddy husk or the rice husk denotes the same commodity or not, the benefit thereof shall be given to the assessee.	Reasoning
Furthermore, it is not the case of the appellant that the respondent extracts any oil out of paddy husk.	Reasoning
There are many other fruits which have two layers for example Pista, Cashew Nut and Ground Nut etc.	Reasoning
One may only remove the outer cover and take the fruit or grain with the inner cover but one may like to take out the inner cover also which will depend upon the taste of the person concerned.	Reasoning
Some persons may like to take brown rice but some other may like to take white rice.	Reasoning
In Babu Ram Jagdish Kumar Co. v. State of Punjab Ors.	None
(1979) 3 SCC 616 , this Court, following the decision of Ganesh Trading Co. (supra), opined We may at this stage refer to one other subsidiary argument urged on behalf of the appellants.	None
It is argued that because paddy and rice are not different kinds of goods but one and the same, inclusion of both paddy and rice in Schedule C to the Act would amount to imposition of double taxation under the Act.	None
There is no merit in this contention also because the assumption that paddy and rice are one and the same is erroneous.	None
In Ganesh Trading Co., Karnal v. State of Haryana, arising under the Act, this Court has held that although rice is produced out of paddy, it is not true to say that paddy continued to be paddy even after dehusking that rice and paddy are two different things in ordinary parlance and, therefore, when paddy is dehusked and rice produced, there is a change in the identity of the goods.	None
For the reasons aforementioned, there is no merit in these appeals which are dismissed accordingly with costs.	Decision
Counsels fee assessed at Rs.25,000/ in each matter.	Decision
