 Srikrishna, J. The appellant of the Division Bench of the Kerala High Court dismissing writ appeal no.	None
2614/2001 of the appellant is challenged before us in this appeal.	None
The writ appeal itself was to impugn the judgment of the single Judge dismissing O.P. No. 9007/1999 by the appellant.	None
With a view to encouraging the industrial process in the State of Kerala, and as a measure of incentive, the State Government decided as a matter of policy that new industrial units established in the State would be exempted for a period of 5 years from payment of enhanced power tariff which had come into effect on 1.1.1992.	Facts
This policy was reflected in the G.O. (MS) No. 4/92/ ID dated 6.2.1992 which indicated that the concession would be available.	Facts
i. to the units from the date of commercial production which start such production between 1.1.1992 and 31.12.1996.	Facts
ii.	None
To manufacturing units only and not to service and entertainments units iii.	Facts
To existing units for substantial expansion modernisation diversification.	Facts
The concession in such cases will be available only for the consumption of the new machinery and equipment which add to the capital asset, by not less than 25 of the existing fixed capital investment excluding land and building the installation of which is to be certified by the competent authority.	Facts
iv.	None
For modernisation, to industrial units having a contract demand not exceeding 500 KVA.	Facts
In such cases, new equipments alone will be eligible for the concession.	Facts
The Government order also indicated that the eligibility for the concessions would have to be certified by the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) Kerala Financial Corporation (KFC) in respect of units funded by them, or by the Director of Industries and Commerce in other cases, and by the concerned General Manager, District Industries Centres in respect of Small Scale Industrial units.	Facts
It was also declared in Government order that the industrial units which set up their captive power generating units for their own consumption would be exempted from payment of electricity duty to the extent to which they generate power for their own consumption.	Facts
The said concession was made available to the units which may have started commercial production or set up captive power generating units between 23.9.1991 and 31.12.1991.	Facts
On 26/27.6.1995 the appellant company was registered with the Registrar of Companies office at Palakkad in Kerala State.	Facts
The company intended to manufacture alloy steel M.S. Sections, C.T.D. Bars, Steel Castings and allied products.	Facts
The company had an authorised capital of Rs. 5.50 lakhs out of which shares worth Rs. 205 lakhs were issued to and subscribed by the Directors and their friends and rest were issued to and subscribed by the public.	Facts
The appellant company also raised loans from the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation and the Kerala Financial Corporation for setting up the unit.	Facts
According to the appellant, the total project cost was Rs. 820 lakhs.	Facts
Land was purchased in Kottai village in Palakkad District of Kerala and construction of buildings and installation of machinery for steel melting and rerolling was commenced.	Facts
On 17.7.1995 the appellant made an application to the Chief Engineer, Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) for allocation of 2450 KVA of power.	Facts
The appellant requested for registration of its application and sought a feasibility certificate for the allocation of power at the earliest to facilitate sanction of loan from KFC KSIDC and working capital from South Indian Bank Ltd.	Facts
On or about 17.6.1996 the appellant made a representation to the Ministry of Steel, Government of India to persuade the KSEB to expedite the sanction of power.	Facts
The Regional Development Commissioner for Iron and Steel, Government of India, Ministry of Steel, addressed a D.O. letter dated 3.7.1996 to the Chairman KSEB, strongly recommending the urgent sanction of the power to the appellant.	Facts
By a letter dated 16.7.1996 the Chairman, KSEB, informed the Regional Development Commissioner for Iron and Steel, Madras that the State of Kerala was facing acute shortage of electrical energy and that the KSEB was resorting to all possible ways to tide over the situation.	Facts
As a part of their efforts to bring down the energy consumption, they had even banned new domestic connections.	Facts
Hence, the Chairman said, in the present scenario I am not in a position to think of giving power allocation to a power intensive industry like steel producing unit and said if the situation improves, the application of M s. Southern Ispat Ltd. can be taken up.	Facts
The said reply was forwarded to the appellant by the office of the Regional Development Commissioner for Iron and Steel.	Facts
By a letter dated 10.9.1996 addressed to the appellant the KSEB sanctioned power allocation to the extent of 1950 KVA at 11 KV with contract demand of 1950 KV to the appellants factory.	Facts
The allocation was made subject to the following conditions.	Facts
Supply is liable to be restricted or cut of during power shortage period after giving notice.	Facts
Power should not be used for industrial purpose between 6 P.M. to 10 P.M. or any other restrictions necessitated by local condition or otherwise when imposed should be strictly complied with.	Facts
Charges payable as minimum will have to be paid even if power is not availed of within three months from the date on which the readiness of the Board to supply power to you is intimated.	Facts
Specific provision regarding the above condition will be incorporated in the service connection agreement.	Facts
You have to execute a power supply agreement in the form to be specified by the Deputy Chief Engineer, Ele. Palakkad and agree to pay the tariff and other charges specified by the Board from time to time as per rules in force in the Board within 6 months from the date of this letter failing which the allocation sanctioned will stand cancelled.	Facts
You have to request remit the required amount under OYEC scheme which may be ascertained from the Assistant Executive Engineer, Electrical Major section, Parali.	Facts
The power allocated can be availed only after drawing separate 11 KV feeder from Parali Sub Station (Extension of 1.12 KM of S C line and duplicating 2.3 KM of the Kottayi feeder) for which OYEC amount has to be remitted by the applicant.	Facts
The power allocated can be given only after providing separate outlet in the 110 KC Sub Station, Parali and the cost of work has to be met by the application under OYEC Scheme.	Facts
The Executive Engineer KSEB Palakkad informed the appellant by a letter dated 3.10.1996 that an estimate amounting to Rs. 8,73,200 had been sanctioned for the power allocation work to the appellant under Own Your Electric Connection (OYEC) basis.	Facts
The appellant was called upon to remit a sum of Rs. 8,73,200/ in cash, at the earliest, to the electrical section.	Facts
On 11.11.1996 the appellant wrote a letter to the Executive Engineer, Electrical Division, KSEB Palakkad informing him that it had completed all civil works at the site and erected over 50 of plant and machinery and that other machines were in transit and were expected to reach very shortly.	Facts
He, therefore, requested that instructions be issued to the Executive Engineer Electrical, Parali to accept the amount of Rs. 8,73,200 so that the KSEB electrical work may start to meet the requirements.	Facts
On 12.11.1996 the Executive Engineer Electric Division Bench Palakkad addressed a letter to the Deputy Chief Engineer, Electrical Circle, Palakkad on the subject.	Facts
He pointed out that an estimate for Rs. 8,73,200/ towards construction of 1.12 Kms 11 KV overhead line and duplicating 2.3 KM of Kottayi feeder from 110 KV sub station Parali for giving high tension connection under OYEC basis had been sanctioned in favour of the appellant.	Facts
He also stated that the appellant was ready to remit the amount on OYEC basis and requested further instructions in the matter.	Facts
On or about 14.11.1996 the appellant sent a letter to the Deputy Chief Engineer, Electrical Circle, Palakkad thanking him for the inspection of the work site on 12.11.1996.	Facts
It also enclosed a Charted Accountants certificate detailing the investment of Rs. 379.68 lakhs and a photocopy of KSIDCs letter dated 11.11.1996 giving full details.	Facts
Finally, the letter requested permission to deposit the amount of Rs. 8,73,200 at Electrical Major Section, Parali so that the construction of line may begin.	Facts
A copy of the letter from KSIDC requesting expedition and commission of the project was also forwarded.	Facts
Apprehending that the KSEB was deliberately delaying the matter, so that the appellant would not be able to carry out commercial production before the cut off date of 31.12.1996, the appellant submitted a scheme to the Government of Kerala for generation of 125 KVA electrical energy by installation of a diesel power generating set in its factory.	Facts
By the letter dated 6.12.1996 of the Chief Electrical Inspector to the appellant sanction for the scheme was granted subject to the following conditions Copy of Power allocation sanction for additional loads if required should be obtained from the K.S.E. Board Licensee and a copy of the same forwarded to Electrical Inspector.	Facts
Installation of all switch boards and distribution boards should be in conformity with Rule 51(1) (c) of I.E. Rules, 1956.	Facts
Fuses should be graded properly and selected based on the rating of cables.	Facts
Low watt loss fuses shall be selected.	Facts
Earthing of the installation should conform to provisions in I.S. 3043/87.	Facts
Isolation facility should be provided for all equipments within a distance of 3 meters from equipments conforming to Rule 50(1)(d) of I.E. Rules, 1956, M.V. installation should conform to I.S. 732.	Facts
Installation of all cables should be as per standards.	Facts
An energy meter should be provided in the generator circuit which should be got tested and sealed by Kerala State Electricity Board Standards Laboratory attached to this Department and a copy of the test report should be forwarded to Electrical Inspector.	Facts
Sanction from K.S.E.B. under Section 44 of the Supply Act 1948 should be obtained and copy forwarded to the Electrical Inspector.	Facts
Only materials with I.S. certification as required under QCO should be used.	Facts
The Electrical Inspector should ensure this.	Facts
Only energy efficient equipments shall be used in the installation.	Facts
Completion report should be submitted to this office for arranging inspection.	Facts
The voltmeter and frequently meter may be provided before the breaker in the generator control panel.	Facts
On 6.12.1996 the appellant also applied to the Secretary of Kottayi Gram Panchayat for permission to install and utilise a diesel generator set of 125 KVA for its factory with the help of which it was proposed to use a 10 HP motor.	Facts
On 11.12.1996 the appellant forwarded a cheque for Rs. 8,73,200 to the Assistant Executive Engineer, Electrical Major Section, Parli and requested him to accept it towards the estimate for the construction work to be carried out.	Facts
He was also requested to draw up an agreement so that it can be executed and the security amount be deposited.	Facts
According to the appellant, it purchased stamp papers for executing the agreement with KSEB for supply of electricity on 9.12.1996.	Facts
On 11.12.1996 the Assistant Executive Engineer, Parali accepted the cheque of Rs. 8,73,200 towards the cost of construction of electric line.	Facts
By an order made by the Chief Engineer Transmission (North) Kozhikode, on 12.12.1996 sanction was accorded for an estimate amounting to Rs. 13,10,000 for modification of substation for providing 11 KV Outlet at 110 KV substation, Parali and registered as 21/9697.	Facts
It was directed by the order that the cost on account of this had to be met from the deposit to be made by the beneficiary under OYEC Scheme.	Facts
On 13.12.1996 the appellant gave a declaration to the KSEB that the private generator set installed at the premises of its factory would not be synchronised with KSEB board mains and that a meter would be installed.	Facts
On the same day the agreement on stamp paper of Rs. 60 was forwarded to the Assistant Executive Engineer, Electrical Major Section, Parli, Palakkad for being processed.	Facts
He was also requested to intimate the amount to be deposited towards security.	Facts
On 16.12.1996 the appellant deposited a sum of Rs.	Facts
13,10,000/ with the KSEB as directed in the order of the Chief Engineer.	Facts
The appellant moved the High Court of Kerala by O.P. No. 6456/1997 seeking a writ of Mandamus directing the KSEB and its officers to take urgent and immediate steps to give sanctioned power connection to the appellants factory at Kottayi and also sought an interim order for grant of power connection temporarily from the feeder line to the neighbouring industrial unit, M s. Elgi Tyre Treads Ltd.	Facts
Kottayi, so as to enable the petitioner to maintain nominal production and marketing of its products and reduce the overheads and other losses.	Facts
This petition was disposed of by a learned single Judge of the Kerala High Court by an order dated 11.4.1997 with the direction to the Deputy Chief Engineer, Electrical Circle, Vydyuthi Bhavan, Palakkad, to consider and take a decision on Exhibit P15 (the appellants representation) dated 23.12.1996) addressed to him highlighting the grievances of the appellant, with notice to the petitioner, within a period of three weeks.	Facts
Pursuant to the directions made by the High Court, the KSEB considered the grievances made by the appellant and the appellant was informed as under by letter dated 23.5.1997 I have been directed by the Secretary K.S.E.B. Trivandrum 4 to intimate you the decision regarding your representation vide Ex.	Facts
P15 in the above OP.	Facts
Accordingly I may inform that Power allocation to the extent of 1950 KVA was granted to you by the Chief Engineer (Distt.	Facts
North), Kozhikode on 12.9.1996 on the specific conditions that.	Facts
The power can be availed only after drawing separate 11 KV feeder from Parli SubStation under OYEC and The power can be given only after providing separate outlet in the 110 KV SubStation Parli under OYEC.	Facts
The above conditions were stipulated taking into consideration all technical aspects such as loading on 11 KV feeder, Voltage regulation, flexibility of 11 KV lines, existing Power system line capacity etc.	None
As you have already remitted the OYEC for all the above works (a) (b) above, action has been taken by the Executive Engineer Elec.	Facts
Division Palakkad to finalise the tenders for the construction of 11 KV new feeder.	None
Taking into account the existing consumers in the 11 KV Elgi Feeder and all technical aspects, I regret to inform that it is not technically feasible to connect your factory load from the existing Elgi feeder.	None
Further, I may inform that due to acute Power shortage, the Board has ordered a total ban on new connections to the Power Intensive units  during the period of Power cut, w.e.f. 30.7.1996.	None
Yours faithfully Sd  Executive Engineer IN C. For a period of almost two years the appellant made no grievance, nor took any other steps.	None
The appellant moved a writ petition No. OP 9007/1999 before the High Court of Kerala challenging the bill for charges for electrical energy supplied to the appellants industrial unit at rates in excess of the pre1992 tariff rates.	Facts
This writ petition was moved on 31.3.1999 and challenged the invoice no. 23602 dated 23.3.1999 by which the appellant was called upon to pay a sum of Rs. 2,28,578/ towards consumption of electricity during the month of February, 1999.	Facts
By a judgment dated 3.7.2001 the learned single Judge who heard the writ petition dismissed the writ petition holding generally that appellant had not complied with the conditions subject to which power supply at concessional tariff rates have to be made.	Facts
Being aggrieved thereby, the appellant filed writ appeal no. 2614/2001 which was dismissed by the Division Bench by the judgment impugned before this Court.	Facts
It is contended by the Appellant that the delay in sanction and supply of electric supply was only on account of the tardy manner in which the KSEB functioned.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also urged that, despite the lethargy shown by the KSEB, to meet the deadline the appellant had installed its own diesel generator set and commenced commercial production on 14.12.1996.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant relied on certain invoices for sales made to customers in the month of December, 1996,a certificate dated 11.9.1998 issued by the KSFC, the copies of the nil return made to the commercial taxes department, declaration made to the superintendent of Central Excise and Register of daily stock in support of its contention that it had commenced commercial production in the month of December, 1996.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reference was also made to the assessment order issued by the Sales Tax Department and the Balance Sheet of the company as on 31.3.1997 for this purpose.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents strongly refute the contentions urged and support the judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court as being correctly decided on the facts of the case.	Arguments of Respondent
As the Division Bench rightly pointed out, the question to be decided in this case is essentially a question of fact, namely, whether the appellant had started commercial production between 1.1.1992 and 31.12.1996 so as to be entitled to power supply at concessional tariff rates.	Issue
As a rule, it is not the practice of this Court to interfere with factual findings which have been concurrently recorded by two courts below.	None
Both the learned single Judge and Division Bench have concurrently answered all factual findings against the appellant.	None
On that ground itself the appellant must fail.	None
Nonetheless, as the appeal was argued with some seriousness, we propose to deal with the facts and examine the factual findings only from the point of view of interference under our special jurisdiction under Article 136.	None
The Division Bench of the High Court rightly pointed out that though the policy of granting concessional tariff was announced by the State Government on 6.2.1992, followed by the KSEB order dated 27.3.1992, the appellant did nothing till or about June 1995.	None
It is only in June 1995 that the appellant company was incorporated and an application for power allocation was made on 17.7.1995.	None
The appellants factory had yet to be constructed and machinery to be transported and installed after the construction of the factory building.	None
Undoubtedly, the application was moved on 17.7.1995 in anticipation.	None
The material on record suggests that there was acute shortage of electricity as a result of which even domestic power connections were being refused.	None
The high tension power supply required by the appellant had to be specially arranged by drawing the electrical lines on OYEC basis by construction of PSC polls along the line at the Appellants cost.	None
This amount was deposited on 11.12.1996, only a few days before the concession was about to lapse.	None
Having examined the correspondence on record, we are not in a position to accept the contention of the appellant that the respondents had acted with undue tardiness or lethargy.	None
Further, the remittances of Rs. 8,54,700/ and Rs. 3,45,200/ made by way of security deposit for executing the power supply agreement were actually made on 1.2.1997 and 4.2.1997, after the expiry of the period of concession.	None
The KSEB made the power allocation on the specific condition that power would be supplied subject to drawing of 11 KVA exclusive feeder line from 110 KV Parali station under the OYEC scheme.	None
The electric wiring was completed in the factory of the appellant and the wiring contractor submitted completion certificate on 29.8.1998.	None
There were some deficiencies which were rectified by the appellant only on 1.12.1998.	None
The electrical inspector is required to sanction the electrical wiring and this was done on 14.12.1998.	None
Power supply commenced only on 19.12.1999.	None
Thus, upto and including 19.2.1999 the appellant had not functioned with the power supplied by the KSEB either temporarily or on permanent basis.	None
The contention of the appellant that commercial production had commenced in December 1996 can hardly be accepted.	None
The appellant was setting up the factory for manufacturing of alloy steel M.S. Sections, C.T.D. bars, Steel ingots and so on with a planed production of 24000 tons of iron and steel ingots and 24000 tons of iron and steel bars, coils etc.	None
It hardly stands to reason that commercial production of such a factory could have commenced by using of a 125 KVA diesel generator set.	None
There is also no material on record to show that the appellant had run the factory by using 125 KVA generator set during the period December 1996 to February 1999.	None
It is pointed out by the High Court, and rightly in our view, that even the diesel unit could also not be used until permission was obtained under Rule 65 of the Indian Electricity Rules, 1956, from the Chief Electrical Inspector.	None
Such permission was obtained from the Chief Electrical Inspector only on 14.12.1998.	None
Thus, it is clear that even the order for energisation of the 125 KVA diesel generator set was accorded to the appellant only in 1998.	None
In these circumstances, we find it difficult to accept the contention of the appellant that commercial production had started in December 1996 by using diesel generator set as alleged.	None
The appellant contends that the certificate issued by the Kerala Financial Corporation dated 11.9.1998 is conclusive evidence of the fact that the appellant had commenced commercial production in December 1996.	None
Interestingly, the KFCs certificate is very guarded and states This is to certify that Southern Ispat Limited has commenced its commercial production of C.I. Shot and grits with the help of Generator set as Kottayi in Palakkad district on the 14th day of December, 1996 as per records submitted by the company.	None
(Emphasis is ours)	None
In the first place, we are unable to accept that the certificate issued by the KFC is conclusive in the matter.	None
At the highest, it may be one of the facts to be considered by the KSEB in the light of all other relevant material.	None
The High Court has pointed out a series of difficulties in accepting this certificate as conclusive.	None
Firstly, the certificate has been issued only on 11.9.1998.	None
The certificate is issued To whom so ever it may concern.	None
There is no reference to the electrical Inspectors findings on the matter of conditions of appellants high tension installations, which was a prerequisite for the KFC to issue a proper certificate for the purpose of entitlement to the pre1992 tariff concessions.	None
There is nothing to show that the KFC had made any inquiry of their own.	None
On the contrary, as the certificate shows, the certificate appears to have been issued merely on the basis of record produced by the company.	None
The record produced by the company could not have shown that the appellant company had started commercial production.	None
The High Court has also disbelieved and rejected the other documents relied upon in support of the appellants case of commencing of commercial production prior to 31.12.1996.28.	None
The High Court points out the fact that promoters of the appellant company had a factory at Raipur in Madhya Pradesh and the possibility of the Appellant having brought manufactured goods from there and sold them within the State of Kerala to create documents to show that the production started before 1996 could not be ruled out.	None
Even the documents produced by the appellant do not show any continuous commercial production during the period December 1996 to February 1999.	None
We agree with the conclusion of the High Court that it was not sufficient for showing commercial production that some small items were sold by the appellant in December 1996 and nil assessment of sales tax was made and a small excise duty payment was also made.	None
We agree with the High Courts view that these were all selfserving documents created as evidence for commercial production prior to the cut off date of 31.12.1996.	None
Upon an overall assessment of the facts on record, we are not satisfied that the view taken by the Division Bench of the High Court on facts is so perverse that it requires interference by this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeal is dismissed.	Decision
However, there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
