Ruma Pal, J. Consequent of the creation of the State of Haryana from the erstwhile State of Punjab, the question of apportionment of the river waters made available to the erstwhile State of Punjab between Haryana and Punjab arose.	None
A notification was issued by the Union of India on 24th March, 1976 under Section 78 of Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966, inter alia dividing the river waters between the two States.	Facts
The SutlejYamuna Link Canal Project covering about 214 KMs.	Facts
was to be constructed through the States of Punjab and Haryana.	Facts
Out of the 214 of KMs, 122 KMs were to run through the territory of Punjab and 92 KMs through Haryana.	Facts
The cost of completion of the canal was to be met by the Central Government, Haryanas portion of the canal was completed by June 1980.	Facts
The State of Punjab had not completed its share of the canal although it had been paid the amount necessary for the purpose as also for the recurring expenditure towards maintenance of the canal.2.	Facts
A suit was filed by the State of Haryana in 1979 being Suit No.1 of 1979 in this Court under Article 131 of the Constitution seeking completion of the construction of the canal.	Facts
The State of Punjab also filed a suit being Suit No. 2 of 1979 inter alia challenging Section 78 of the Punjab Reorganisation Act and the notification dated 24th March, 1976 by which the river waters were directed to be shared between Haryana and Punjab.	Facts
During the pendency of the suits, an agreement was entered into between the States of Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan in the presence of the Prime Minister of India on 13th December, 1981.	Facts
The agreement, in so far as it is relevant, provided that the SutlejYamuna Canal Project would be implemented in a time bound manner.	None
The canal and appurtenant works in the Punjab territory were to be completed within a maximum period of two years from the date of the signing of the agreement.	Facts
On the basis of and after recording this agreement, the suits were allowed to be withdrawn by this Court on 12th February 1982.3.	Facts
The date for completion of the canal by Punjab in terms of the agreement dated 13th December, 1981 expired.	Facts
The Punjab portion of the canal remained incomplete.	Facts
The agreement was sought to be repudiated by the State.	Facts
A settlement was then arrived at on 5th November 1985 known as the Punjab Settlement which dealt with the several disputes between the State of Haryana and Punjab.	Facts
For the present, we need only note clause 9 of the settlement.	Facts
It reads Sharing of River Waters9.1	None
The farmers of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan will continue to get water not less than what they are using from the RaviBeas system as on 1.7.1985 waters used for consumptive purposes will also remain unaffected.	Facts
Quantum of usage claimed shall be verified by the Tribunal referred to in para 9.2.	Facts
below.9.2.	Facts
The claims of Punjab and Haryana regarding the shares in their remaining waters will be referred for adjudication to a Tribunal to be presided over by the Supreme Court Judge.	Facts
The decision of this Tribunal will be rendered within six months and would be binding on both parties.	Facts
All legal and constitutional steps required in this respect be taken expeditiously.9.3.	Facts
The construction of SYL Canal shall continue.	Facts
The canal shall be completed by 15.8.1986.	None
In approval of the settlement and in terms of the first two clauses of clause 9 of the Settlement, Section 14 was added to the InterState Water Disputes Act, 1956 and issues relating to the usage, share and allocation of the Ravi Beas waters were referred to the adjudication of the Waters Tribunal by the Union of India under Notification dated 2nd April, 1986.	None
The Tribunal submitted its report on 30th January, 1987 inter alia allocating the RaviBeas Waters between Punjab and Haryana.	Facts
An application was made by Punjab before the Waters Tribunal for review of its decision.	Facts
That application is pending.5.	Facts
However Clause 9.3 of the settlement which was kept distinct from the water disputes under Clauses 9.1 and 9.2 continued to operate.	Facts
The State of Punjab completed about 90 of the construction of the canal, but about 10 of the construction remained incomplete.	Facts
The State of Haryana then filed a second suit being Suit No. 6 of 1996 for (a) a decree declaring that the order dated 24.3.1976, the agreement of 31.12.1981 and the settlement of 24.7.1985 are final and binding inter alia on the State of Punjab casting an obligation on Defendant No.1 to immediately restart and complete the portion of the Sutlej Yamuna Link Canal Project as also make it usable in all respects, not only under the aforesaid order of 1976, agreement of 1981 and settlement of 1985 but also pursuant to a contract established by conduct from 1976 till date (b) a decree of mandatory injunction compelling Defendant 1 (failing which Defendant 2 by or through any agency) to discharge its their obligations under the said notification of 1976, the agreement of 1981 and the settlement of 1985 and in any case under contract established by conduct, by immediately restarting and completing that portion of the Sutlej Yamuna Link Canal Project in the State of Punjab and otherwise making it suitable for use within a time bound manner as may be stipulated by this Honble Court to enable the State of Haryana to receive its share of Ravi and Beas waters.	Facts
A written statement was filed by the State of Punjab questioning the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 262 of the Constitution of India.	Facts
It was also contended that the suit was barred under Order XXIII Rule 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure and under Order XXXII Rule 2 of the Supreme Court Rules 1966.	Facts
According to the State of Punjab the agreement dated 31st December, 1981 was superseded by the settlement dated 24th July 1985 which did not bind the State.	Facts
It was averred that the SYL canal was unnecessary because the State of Haryana was to get additional water supply from other rivers and that the State of Haryana had no right to the water from the river Ravi.7.	Facts
The Union of India in its written statement, apart from affirming the facts as noted by us earlier, also stated that it was essential that the Punjab portion of the SYL canal be completed at the earliest.8.	Facts
After considering the material on record, on 15th January, 2002 this Court decreed the suit in favour of the State of Haryana and issued a mandatory injunction directing the State of Punjab to complete the construction of the canal and make it functional within one year from the date of the judgment.	Facts
If within that period the canal was not completed by the State of Punjab, the Union Government was directed to get it done through its own agency as expeditiously as possible.9.	Facts
The State of Punjab did not comply with this Courts decree and the canal remains incomplete.	Facts
On 8th January 2002, it filed an application for review of the judgment and decree of this Court which we dismissed on 5th March 2002.10.	Facts
On 22nd March 2002, a writ petition under Article 32 was filed by Bharatiya Kisan Union (W.P. No. 94 of 2004) claiming to be a registered association of Indian citizens and seeking to question the decree and purporting to raise issues relating to the availability of water of the RaviBeas for allocation to the State of Haryana.	Facts
An interlocutory application was also filed for stay of the decree dated 15th January 2002.	Facts
The writ petition was dismissed by this Court on 10th February, 2004.11.	Facts
On 18th December 2002, an application was filed by Haryana for implementation of the judgment and decree dated 15th January, 2002.	Facts
This application was registered and numbered as I.A. No. 1 of 2002 in Suit No. 6 of 1996.12.	Facts
On 13th January 2003, the State of Punjab filed a suit being Suit No.1 of 2003 for the following reliefs(a) discharge dissolve the obligation to construct SYL Canal imposed by the mandatory injunction decreed by this Honble Court in its judgment decree dated 15.1.2002 in OS No. 6/1996 for the reasons set out in the plaint(b) to declare that the judgment decree dated 15.1.2002 in OS No.	Facts
6/1996 is not binding or enforceable since the issues raised in that Suit could only have been decided by a Constitution Bench in terms of Article 145 (3) of Constitution of India.(c) To declare that Section 14 of the Act, 1956 is ultravires the Constitution of India(d) to declare that Section 14 of the Act, 1956 is no longer enforceable for the reasons set out in the plaint(e) to declare the Punjab Settlement (Rajiv  Longowal Accord) is not enforceable under the changed circumstances as set out in the Plantin the alternativein case it is held by this Honble Court that the Punjab Settlement dated 24.7.1985 is an enforceable Agreement then direct enforceability and compliance of other 10 issues and to keep in abeyance obligation to construct SYL canal till other conditions set out in the settlement are implemented and or the Water Disputes arising from the reallocation of RaviBeas waters are resolved under the Act, 1956.(f) Declare that Section 78(1) of the Act, 1966 is ultra vires of the Constitution of India, and that all acts, deeds and things done pursuant thereto or in consequence thereof including all Notifications, Agreements etc, are null and void including the notification dated 24.93.1976 and the Agreement dated 31.12.1981 as noneast and void ab initio.13.	Facts
The State of Haryana then filed an application under Order XXIII Rule 6 read with Order XLVII Rule 6 of the Supreme Court Rules, 1966 for rejection of the plaint alternatively for summary dismissal of the suit.	Facts
The application, which has been numbered as I.A. No. 1 of 2003 has been opposed by Punjab inter alia contending that Order XXIII Rule 6(a) of the Supreme Court Rules is unconstitutional.14.	Facts
Haryanas application for enforcement of the decree (I.A. 1 to O.S. No. 6 of 1996) was sought to be amended in I.A. No. 3.	Facts
The State of Punjab sought to file a counter affidavit to I.A.	Facts
No. 1 in O.S. No. 1 of 1996 which was numbered as I.A. No. 2.	Facts
On 13th August, 2003, the State of Haryana filed a second application for a direction on the Union of India to carry out its obligations under the decree since the period of one year fixed by the decree had expired.	Facts
This has been numbered as I.A. No. 4 in OS 1 of 1996.	Facts
In view of this last application of Haryana, I.A. Nos. 1,2 and 3 in O.S. No. 1 of 1996 were dismissed as infructuous on 17th December 2003.15.	Facts
At this stage, the State of Punjab filed a Writ Petition No. 30/2004 for a declaration that Rule 6(a) of Order XXIII of the Supreme Court Rules, 1966 is ultravires the Constitution, alternatively for a declaration that Rule 6(a) of Order XXIII cannot be invoked in suits filed under Article 131 of the Constitution of India.	Facts
This writ petition was not entertained in view of the fact that the same issues had been raised by the State of Punjab in answer to the application of the State of Haryana under Order XXIII Rule 6 of the Supreme Court Rules.16.	Facts
Therefore, out of this welter of litigation what survives for disposal is1)	Facts
Haryanas application for enforcement of the decree 15th January, 2002 (I.A. No. 4 in O.S. 6/1996).2) Punjabs suit interalia challenging the decree dated 15th January 2002 (O.S. 1/2003) and(3)	Facts
Haryanas application for rejection of the plaint in Punjabs suit (I.A. 1 in OS 1/2003).17.	Facts
Necessarily the last proceeding is required to be disposed of at the outset because on the outcome of this application will depend the fate of the second proceeding which may in turn have an impact on the first.	Facts
IA.	Facts
No. 1 in O.S. 1 of 200318.	Facts
Order XXIII Rule 6 of the Supreme Court Rules, 1966 under which I.A. 1 of 2003 has been filed provides The plaint shall be rejected(a) where it does not disclose a cause of action(b) where the suit appears from the statement in the plaint to be barred by any law.	Facts
According to Haryana, a suit to set aside a decree of this Court, as Suit No. 1 of 2003 purports to do, is not maintainable under Article 131 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also submitted that the suit seeks to raise water disputes which are not capable of being entertained by this Court by virtue of Article 262 of the Constitution and that the prayers (c) to (f) were barred by the doctrine of res judicata.	Arguments of Petitioner
Additionally, it has been urged that the State of Punjab could not competently challenge the vires of Section 78 of the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966, apart from the fact that under Order XXXII Rule 2 of the Rules the issue having been raised in OS 2 of 1979 could not after its withdrawal, be raised again.	Arguments of Petitioner
Punjabs challenge to Section 14 of the InterState Water Disputes Act, 1956 is also stated to be barred by estoppel because Punjab had submitted to the jurisdiction of the Tribunal, suffered an Award and made an application under Section 5(3) of the Act before the Tribunal which was still pending.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has been submitted that the plaint did not disclose any cause of action and had been filed in abuse of process of this Court and that this Court should not countenance such frivolous and vexatious litigation and should dismiss the suit under Order XLVII Rule 6 of the Rules.	Arguments of Petitioner
In answer, the State of Punjab has submitted that it had a legal right to resist execution of the decree by reason of changed circumstances which right could only be enforced under Article 131 by way of a suit.	Arguments of Respondent
It is said that the constitutional remedy available to the States or Union under Article 131 was extraordinary in character and the requirement of a cause of action could not be imported into Article 131.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that Order XXIII Rule 6(a) of the Supreme Court Rules which allowed the rejection of the plaint on the ground of nondisclosure of a cause of action was ultravires Article 131.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance has been placed on the decisions of this Court in State of Karnataka vs. Union of India 1977(4) SCC 609, p. 690, 709 as well the decision in State of Karnataka vs. State of A.P. 2000(9) SCC 572 in support of this submission.	Arguments of Respondent
The ground that Rule 6(a) suffers from over exclusive classification and was otherwise violative of Article 14 was however not pressed.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted that the judgment of this Court dated 15th January 2002 decided a water dispute and that the decision of this Court in dismissing the review application filed by the State of Punjab was wrong.	Arguments of Respondent
As far as the question of res judicata is concerned, it is submitted that is an issue to be decided in the suit and not by way of an application under Order XXIII Rule 6 of the Rules.	Arguments of Respondent
Punjab has also submitted that Haryanas application for rejection of the plaint should be heard by a Bench of three Judges.	Arguments of Respondent
It may be mentioned that by an Order dated 1st January, 2004, Haryanas application was directed by the learned Chief Justice to be listed before a Bench of which one of us (Ruma Pal, J.) is a member.	Arguments of Respondent
By a subsequent order dated 14th January, 2004, the question whether the application for rejection of the plaint should be heard by a Bench of three judges was left to the same Bench to decide.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no legal provision by which the issues raised by Haryana in its application is required to be heard by a Bench of three judges.	None
On the other hand the suit filed by Punjab seeks modification of a decree.	None
That decree was passed by a Bench of two Judges.	None
The normal rule is that an application for modification of the decree or order is to be made before the Bench which passed the decree or order.	Reasoning
Merely because the litigating parties are States, would not alter this position.	Reasoning
In any event we are not for the view that any such issue has been raised which requires determination by a larger Bench.	Reasoning
This submission of the State of Punjab, therefore, is rejected.22.	Reasoning
It is also our opinion that Punjabs challenge to Order XXIII Rule 6(a), even if successful, would not result in dismissal of Haryanas application because the grounds made out for rejection under Order XXIII Rule 6 pertain not only to clause (a) but also to clause (b) thereof.	Reasoning
Haryana has also invoked this Courts powers under Order XL VII Rule 6 which provides that Nothing in these rules shall be deemed to limit or otherwise affect the inherent powers of the Court to make such orders as may be necessary for the ends of justice or to prevent abuse of the process of the Court.	None
Besides the challenge to clause (a) of Rule 6 of Order XXIII is unsustainable.	None
Article 131 of the Constitution which has clothed this Court with exclusive original jurisdiction to decide any dispute (a) between the Government of India and one or more States or (b) between the Government of India and any State or States on one side and one or more States on the other or (c) between two or more States, has laid down as a condition for the exercise of such jurisdiction, that the dispute must involve any question (whether of any law or fact) on which the existence or extent or a legal right depends.	None
It is evident that the phrase cause of action as occurring in Order XXIII Rule 6(a) does not appear in Article 131.	None
The phrase, which occurs in Section 20 of the Code of Civil Procedure and is commonly used in connection with ordinary suits, has in that context.	None
acquired a judiciallysettled meaning.	None
In the restricted sense cause of action means the circumstances forming the infraction of the right or the immediate occasion for the action.	None
In the wider sense, it means the necessary conditions for the maintenance of the suit, including not only the infraction of the right, but the infraction coupled with the right itself.	None
Compendiously, the expression means every fact which it would be necessary for the plaintiff to prove, if traversed, in order to support his right to the judgment of the Court.	None
Every fact which is necessary to be proved, as distinguished from every piece of evidence which is necessary to prove each fact, comprises in clause of action.	None
Rajasthan High Court Advocates Association vs. Union of India, 2001(2) SCC 294).	None
Doubtless, a suit under Article 131 is not an ordinary suit, and the phrase cause of action is conspicuous by its absence in the Article.	Reasoning
But the argument that by the use of the phrase in Order XXIII Rule 6(a), the burden and limitations created by judicial interpretation of the phrases in connection with ordinary suits are necessarily introduced, shackling an otherwise exclusive jurisdiction, is unacceptable.	Reasoning
The phrase, in our opinion, as occurring in Order XXIII Rule 6(a), will have to be read and construed in the context of Article 131 unimpaired by the meaning judicially given to it in other contexts.	Reasoning
Literally, the phrase means nothing more than the ground to sue.	None
Construed in this sense can it be said that there is no requirement of disclosing a ground to use in a suit under Article 131?	None
Article 131 has been the subject matter of interpretation by this Court in several decisions of which Punjab has sought to rely on two.	None
The first is the decision in State of Rajasthan vs. Union of India 1977(3) SCC 592 which pertained to six suits filed by the States of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and Orissa challenging a letter written by the Union Home Minister to the Chief Ministers of those States on the ground that the letter constituted a threat of action under Article 356 of the Constitution.	None
The Union of India raised a preliminary objection that on the allegations made in the plaint, no suit would lie under Article 131 of the Constitution.	None
All six suits were dismissed by a majority of six of the seven Judges constituting the Bench.	None
Among the six, four (Beg CJ, Goswami, Untwalia, and Fazl Ali JJ) upheld the preliminary objection of the Union of India.	None
Two (Chandrachud and Bhagwati JJ) held that the suit was maintainable but decided against the plaintiff on merits.	None
We are bound by the majority view.	None
The reasons for holding that the suit was not maintainable given by Beg. C.J. were Having considered the cases set out in the plaints and the petitions before us, from every conceivable angle, I am unable to find a cause of action for the grant of any injunction or a writ or order in the nature of a Mandamus against any of the Defendants Opposite Parties.	None
The Learned Chief Justice went on to say I am opinion, perhaps the technically more correct order, in the situation before us would have been, on the findings reached by me, one rejecting the plaints under Order XXIII Rule 6 of the Rules of this Court, and rejecting the writ petitions in limine.	None
After all, we had not proceeded beyond the stage of hearing certain preliminary objections put forward by Mr. Soli Sorabji, Additional Solicitor General, to the maintainability of the suits and petitions before us.	None
Although, we heard very full arguments on these preliminary objections, we did not even frame any issues which is done, under the provisions of Part III of the Rules of this Court, applicable to the exercise of the Original Jurisdiction of this Court, before we generally formally dismiss a suit.	None
However, as the form in which we have already passed our orders, dismissing the suit and petitions, which was approved by us on April 29, 1977, has substantially the same effect as the rejection of the plaints for failure to disclose a triable cause of action.	None
The majority view dismissed the suit under clause (a) of Rule 6 of Order XXIII.	Reasoning
The phrase cause of action was considered with reference to Article 131 as meaning a dispute involving a question of fact or law on which the existence or extent of a legal right depends.	Reasoning
The second decision relied upon by the State of Punjab in this context of the State of Karnataka vs. Union of India 1977(4) SCC 608.	None
The decision followed within a few months of the decision in State of Rajasthan vs. Union of India (supra).	None
The subject matter of controversy was a notification issued by the Central Government constituting a Commission of Inquiry under the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952 to inquire into charge of corruption, nepotism, favouritism and misuse of Government power against the Chief Minister and other Ministers of the State of Karnataka.	None
The Union of India raised the preliminary objection that the suit was not maintainable under Article 131 because the inquiry was against the Chief Minister and other individuals and not against the State.	None
Although the suit was dismissed on merits by a majority opinion of the judges, there was again a division with the majority on the question whether the preliminary objection of the Union of India should be upheld.	None
Beg, CJ, Chandrachud and Bhagwati JJ held the suit was maintainable.	None
Untwalia, Shinghal and Jaswant Singh JJ held it was not.	None
There was a division of opinion on the question as to whether there was a dispute within the meaning of Article 131.	None
But all the Judges considered the question of maintainability of the suit filed by the State of Karnataka under Order XXIII Rule 6(a) by reading cause of action in the context of Article 131 as meaning a dispute involving any question on which the existence or extent of a legal right depends or as the precondition subject to which the suit could properly be filed under that Article.	None
In other words, the phrase cause of action in the context of Article 131 was read as nothing more than the ground or basis to sue.	None
Chandrachud, J. makes this clear when he expounded the scope of Article 131 and said The jurisdiction conferred on the Supreme Court by Article 131 of the Constitution should not be tested on the anvil of banal rules which are applied under the Code of Civil Procedure for determining whether a suit is maintainable.	None
Article 131 undoubtedly confers original jurisdiction on the Supreme Court and the commonest form of a legal proceeding which is tried by a Court in the exercise of its original jurisdiction is a suit.	None
But a constitutional provision, which confers exclusive jurisdiction on this Court to entertain disputes of a certain nature in the exercise of its original jurisdiction, cannot be equated with a provision conferring a right on a Civil Court to entertain a common suit so as to apply to an original proceeding under Article 131 the canons of a suit which is ordinarily triable under Section 15 of the Code of Civil Procedure by a Court of the lowest grade competent to try it.	None
Advisedly, the Constitution does not describe the proceeding which may be brought under Article 131 as a suit and significantly, Article 131 uses words and phrases not commonly employed for determining the jurisdiction of a Court of first instance to entertain and try a suit.	None
It does not speak of a cause of action an expression of known and definite legal import in the world of witness actions.	None
Instead, it employs the word dispute which is no part of the elliptical jargon of law.	None
But above all, Article 131 which in a manner of speaking is a self contained code on matters falling within its purview, provides expressly for the condition subject to which an action can lie under it.	None
That condition is expressed by the clause If and in so far as the dispute involves any question (whether of law or fact) on which the existence or extent of a legal right depends.	None
By the very terms of the article, therefore, the sole condition which is required to be satisfied for invoking the original jurisdiction of this Court is that the dispute between the parties referred to in clauses (a) to (e) must involve a question on which the existence or extent of a legal right depends.	None
The cause of action under Order XXIII Rule 6(a) is that sole condition which is required to be satisfied before the jurisdiction of this Court can be invoked under Article 131.	Reasoning
If the plaint does not ex facie show the fulfillment of that condition, it would not be maintainable.	Reasoning
This follows from the language of Article 131 itself.	Reasoning
Therefore merely because the phrase cause of action has been used in Order XXIII Rule 6(a) does not mean that principles enunciated in the context of Section 20 of the Code of Civil Procedure are imported.	Reasoning
Order XXIII Rule 6(a) only gives effect to limitations implicit in Article 131 itself.	Reasoning
It follows that it does not violate Article 131 or any other provision of the Constitution.	None
The application under Order XXIII Rule 6 of the Rules is by way of demurrer.	None
The question whether the plaint should be rejected must therefore be decided on the basis of the allegations contained in the plaint.	None
See D. Ramachandran vs. R.V. Janakiraman 1999 3 SCC 267 , 271) Paragraphs 2 and 7 of the plaint record the substance and content of a complaint filed by the plaintiff on 11th January, 2003 under Section 3 of the 1956 Act relating to reallocation of the RaviBeas waters.	None
Both paragraphs conclude with the identical statement The Plaintiff has every chance of success in the reallocation to reduce the share of Haryana and therefore, the question of SYL construction may not arise for consideration at all.	None
In paragraph 3, the plaintiff has said that the obligation to construct the Canal Basin had been imposed on the plaintiff on the basis of the Punjab settlement but neither the State of Haryana nor the Union of India had performed any of the other obligations imposed upon them under the settlement.	None
Paragraph 4 which has as many as 18 subparagraphs sets out the historical background to the facts claimed to be relevant for the purposes of the present suit.	None
Similarly, paragraph 5 records the proceedings in O.S. 6/96 culminating in the decree.	None
Paragraph 6 says that the directions in the decree dated 15.1.2002 were liable to be discharged by reason of changed circumstances, the changed circumstance being the allocation of water made hitherto before is liable to be reviewed.	None
Up to this stage, there is no other change of circumstance pleaded apart from the filing of a complaint under the InterState Water Disputes Act, 1956 and the chance of success.	None
In paragraph 8, the plaintiff has given the grounds for seeking discharge of the injunction granted on 15.1.20002.	None
These pertain to the availability of water for apportionment between the Punjab and Haryana.	None
It is stated that there is no water available for transfer through the SYL Canal.	None
The second ground is a decision of this Court in writ petition No. 512/2002 on 31.10.2002 by which it is claimed, this Court had directed completion of the net working of the rivers.	None
Among the projects identified by the Union of India was the ShardaYamuna Link, as a result of which, according to the plaintiff, Haryana would get more water and there was no question of burdening the deficit RaviBeas Basin.	None
The third ground is that an issue had been raised in the complaint filed by the plaintiff under Section 3 of the InterState Water Disputes Act, 1956, as tot he rights of Haryana and Rajasthan to the rivers waters as non riparian States.	Reasoning
The next ground is that Haryana had declined to abide by the other terms of the Punjab settlement.	None
The last ground is that water allocations were subject to review.	None
This is followed by arguments in support of the last submission with reference to diverse authorities.	None
In paragraphs 9, 10, and 17 the plaintiff has challenged the decree dated 15th January, 2002 on the ground that it was violative of Articles 145 (3) and 262 of the Constitution and Paragraph 18 questions the correctness of the order dismissing the plaintiffs Review Petition.	None
Paragraph 19 contains an assertion that the construction of the SYL Canal was a water dispute.	None
Paragraphs 11, 12,13 and 14 se out the grounds for challenge to Section 78(1) of the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966.	None
Paragraph 15 gives grounds for claiming the invalidity of Section 14 of the InterState Water Disputes Act, 1956.	None
Paragraph 16 refers to correspondence exchanged with the Chief Ministers of the two States relating to the changed circumstances being the remaining aspect of the Punjab Settlement.	None
Paragraph 20 contains arguments as to why this Court has jurisdiction to entertain the suit.	None
Paragraph 21 relates to the dates on which the alleged cause of action arose and paragraph 22 relates to the question of limitation.	None
An analysis of the averments in the plaint shows that the entire thrust of the suit filed by the State of Punjab is aimed at the decree dated 15th January, 2002 in O.S. No. 6 of 1996.	Reasoning
One portion of the plaint relates to the discharge of the injunction granted by the decree by reason of changed circumstances.	Reasoning
The second portion challenges the decree as being unconstitutional.	None
The first question to be answered is do these disputes involve any question (whether legal or factual) on which the existence or extent of a legal right of the plaintiff depends?	None
If it does then the next question i.e. whether the raising of such disputes is barred by any law?	None
If any of these questions is answered in the affirmative then the plaint must be rejected as a whole.	None
On the other hand, if any part of the dispute crosses both hurdles, the suit must survive because there cannot be a partial rejection of the plaint.	None
(See D. Ramachandran vs. R.V. Janakiraman 1999 (3) SCC 267 ).	None
The primary consideration in answering the first question is the legal right claimed by the plaintiff.	None
Unless the plaintiff can establish that there is such a right in law, there would be no question of this Court deciding any dispute regarding the extent or existence of such right under Article 131.	None
As was said by Bhagwati, J (as His Lordship then was) in State of Rajasthan vs. Union of India (supra).	None
Now, plainly there are two limitations in regard to the dispute which can be brought before the Supreme Court under Article 131.	None
One is in regard to parties and the other is in regard to the subject matter The (other) limitation as to subject matter flows from the words if and if so far as the dispute involves any question (whether of law or fact) on which the existence or extent of a legal right depends.	None
These words clearly indicate that the dispute must be one affecting the existence or extent of a legal right and not a dispute on the political plane not involving a legal aspect.	None
It was put by Chandrachud, J., very aptly in his judgment in the State of Rajasthan vs. Union of India (supra) when he said mere wrangles between Governments have no place under the scheme of that article It is only when a legal, as distinguished from a mere political, issue arises touching upon the existence or extent of a legal right that the article is attracted.	None
Hence the suit in the present case would obviously not be maintainable unless it complies with both these limitations.	None
The plaintiff in the present case claims that the legal right in question is the right to have an injunction modified by reason of changed circumstances.	None
Several decisions both Indian and of the United States have been cited in support of this proposition.	None
Before we consider these authorities it must be kept in mind that as far as this country is concerned the general law relating to injunctions is contained in Sections 36 to Section 42 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963.	None
Although these provisions may not limit the powers of this Court under Article 131 nevertheless they provide valuable guidelines as to the nature of this form of equitable relief.	Reasoning
An injunction may be permanent (perpetual) or temporary.	Reasoning
Specific Relief Act, 1963 Section 36.	None
A permanent injunction is final and conclusive of the facts in the context of which the injunction is granted.	None
A temporary injunction by contrast is granted on a prima facie view of the facts and, as the word temporary itself indicates, is an interim order pending a final adjudication of the rights of the parties.	None
This distinction is not to be confused with the distinction between a prohibitory or preventive injunction on the one hand and a mandatory injunction on the other.	None
In the first case a party is prevented from doing a particular thing or continuing with a particular action (ibid) Section 38.	None
A mandatory injunction on the other hand commands an act to be done and is provided for under Section 39 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 which reads Mandatory injunctions  When, to prevent the breach of an obligation, it is necessary to compel the performance of certain acts which the court is capable of enforcing, the court may in its discretion grant an injunction to prevent the breach complained of, and also to compel performance of the requisite acts.	None
This command may direct the restoration of statusquo ante or may direct the performance of a positive act altering the existing state of things.	None
Kerr on Injunctions 6th	None
Edn. p.40.	None
Mandatory injunction like a preventive injunction may be temporary or final.	None
All the decisions cited by Punjab in its plaint pertain to cases where the decree sought to be modified was a perpetual or containing preventive injunction.	None
Thus, in Albert H. Ladner vs. Clarence R. Siegel 68 ALR 1172 at the instance of adjoining landowners, a decree had been passed preventing the defendant, Siegel, from using the building proposed to be constructed by him by garage purposes.	None
The injunction was granted on the basis that the area was exclusively residential and that the proposed business would give rise to gases and odour affecting the neighbourhood.	None
Subsequent to the decree Siegel applied for modification on the ground that he did not wish to operate the garage but merely wished to use the premises to park the cars of his tenants.	None
The lower Court modified the earlier decree.	None
The adjacent landowners appealed.	None
The US.	None
Supreme Court rejected the appeal and said There are many equitable proceedings that illustrate the general rule, such as specific performance, bills to reform instruments, and others.	None
A final decree in such equitable proceeding is unchangeable, except possibly through gross mistake to be corrected by a bill of review and not then if any intervening right has appeared since entering the decree.	None
In all such proceedings the decree calls for definite action, and the law presumes such action to follow the order.	None
But though a decree may be final, as it relates to an appeal and all matters included or embodied in such a step, yet, where the proceedings are of a continuing nature, it is not final.	None
These are exceptions to the general rule, and to determine them the nature and character of the equitable action must be considered that is, whether the decree is final for the purpose of execution or contemplates other and further steps in the administration of justice.	None
An injunction is the form of equitable proceeding which protects civil rights from irreparable injury, either by commanding acts to be done, or preventing their commission, there being no adequate remedy at law.	None
Granting an injunction rests in the sound discretion of the court, that discretion to be exercised under wellestablished principles, and there are no statutory limitations on the power to the court in relation thereto.	None
While the decree in such action is an adjudication of the facts and the law applicable thereto, it is none the less executory and continuing as to the purpose or object to be attained in this it differs from other equitable actions.	None
It operates until vacated, modified or dissolved.	None
An injunction contemplates either a series of continuous acts or a refraining from action.	None
A preventive injunction constantly prevents one party from doing that which would cause irreparable damage to his neighbours property rights.	None
The final decree continues the life of such proceedings, not only for the purpose of execution, but for such other relief as a chancellor may in good conscience grant under the law.	None
The modification of a decree in a preventive injunction is inherent in the court which granted it, and may be made, (a) if, in its discretion judicially exercised, it believes the ends of justice would be served by a modification, and (b) where the law, common or statutory, has changed, been modified or extended and (c) where there is a change in the controlling facts on which the injunction rested.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The next decision cited is United States of America vs. Swift Company 286 US 105, 76 L.ed.	None
999 where the Government had filed proceedings against five meat packers to dissolve a monopoly on, interalia, the ground that the defendants had not only suppressed competition but were spreading their monopoly into other fields of trade.	None
A consent decree was passed preventing the defendants from maintaining a monopoly and entering into or continuing in combination in restraint of trade and commerce.	None
There were further clauses which prevented the defendants from carrying out the specified type of activity severally and jointly.	None
The decree closed with a provision whereby jurisdiction of the court was retained for the purpose of taking such other action or such other relief as may become necessary or appropriate for the carrying out and enforcement thereof, and for the purpose of entertaining at any time hereafter any application which the parties may make with reference thereto.	None
An application was made before the lower Court by an intervenor for vacating the decree on the ground of lack of jurisdiction.	None
The operation of the decree was suspended by an interim order.	None
On an appeal preferred by the Government and by the wholesale grocers, the U.S. Supreme Court allowed the appeals.	None
In the course of the judgment it was said Power to modify the decree was reserved by its very terms, and so from the beginning went hand in hand with its restraints.	None
If the reservation had been omitted, power there still would be any force of principles inherent in the jurisdiction of the chancery.	None
A continuing decree of injunction directed to events to come is subject always to adaptation as events may shape the need.	None
(114) A distinction was made between restraints that give protection to rights fully accrued upon facts so nearly permanent as to be substantially impervious to change, and those that involve the supervision of changing conduct or conditions and are thus provisional and tentative.	None
The Court, however, made it clear that in proceedings for modification of a decree, the decree itself cannot be impeached and that the Court is not at liberty to reverse under the guise of readjusting.	None
Santa Rita Oil Company vs. State Board of Equalization 126 ALR 757 was a case in which a decree of injunction had been granted restraining the computation, assessment, levying and collection of certain taxes on oil and gas products under a lease of trust patent Indian lands on the ground that the plaintiff was an instrumentality of the Federal Government and, was, therefore immune from taxation by the State.	None
The decision was based upon earlier decisions of the US Supreme Court.	None
In other words, the injunction granted was a continuing one on the basis of the law as it then stood.	None
The US Supreme Court subsequently took a contrary view and overruled the earlier decisions.	None
The question was whether with the change in the legal basis of the earlier decree, the earlier decree would continue to operate.	None
In that context it was held A final or permanent injunction is a continuing process over which the equity court necessarily retains jurisdiction in order to do equity.	None
And if the court of equity later finds that the law has changed or that equity no longer justifies the continuance of the injunction, it may and should free the defendants hands from the fetters by which until then its activities have been prevented, thus leaving if free to perform its lawful duties.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Similarly, the decision in Coca Cola Company vs. Standard Bottling Company 138, F.2d 788 was in connection with the power of Court to modify a decree which sought to prevent the defendant from carrying on business in a certain manner.	None
In System Federation No. 91, Railway Employees Dept. vs. O.V. Wright, 364 US 642,5 L.ed.	None
349,81 S Ct. 368, a decree was passed at the instance of nonunion rail employees against the railroad and railroad labour union from discriminating against them by reason of the plaintiffs refusal to join or retain membership in any labour organisation.	None
Here again, a decree was passed against the defendants perpetually preventing a course of action in the light of a statutory prohibition.	None
There was a subsequent change in the statute.	None
On the basis of this change, the union made an application for modification of the decree.	None
The application was allowed and it was said The source of the power to modify is of course, the fact that an injunction often requires continuing supervision by the issuing court and always a continuing willingness to apply its powers and processes on behalf of the party who obtained that equitable relief.	None
Firmness an stability must no doubt be attributed to continuing injunctive relief based on adjudicated facts and law, and neither the plaintiff nor the court should be subjected to the unnecessary burden of reestablishing what has once been decided.	None
Nevertheless the court cannot be required to disregard significant changes in law or facts if it is satisfied that what it has been doing has been turned through changing circumstances into an instrument of wrong United States vs. Swift Co. supra (286 US at 114, 115)	None
A balance must thus be struck between the policies of resjudicata and the right of the court to apply modified measures to changed circumstances.	None
Coming to the Indian cases cited by the respondent, the first is a decision of the Lahore High Court in Khazan Singh vs. Ralla Ram AIR 1937	None
Lahore 839.	None
In that case, a decree had been passed protecting by way of injunction an easement in respect of a window and a parnala.	None
An easement by definition implies continuity.	None
The house of the plaintiff was rebuilt and the window was relocated.	None
In view of this changed circumstances, it was held that the easement did not continue in respect of the window but continued in respect of the parnala.	None
Yashpal Singh vs. VIII Addl.	None
District Judge and others 1992 (2) SCC 504 was a case arising out of two conflicting orders of injunction.	None
The respondent No.3 had in that case obtained a decree injuncting the Forest Department and the State of U.P. from interfering with his rights to cut trees on a plot of land which he claimed to belong to him.	None
The decree therefore continuously prevented the defendants from interfering with the respondent N.3s right.	None
A third party filed a civil suit against the respondent No.3 and obtained an interim injunction restraining the respondent No.3 from cutting trees from the plot of land which she claimed belonged to her.	None
The Respondent No.3 allegedly disobeyed the order of interim injunction.	None
The plaintiff in the second suit obtained the help of the local police to restrain the respondent No.3 from removing the threes.	None
The respondent No.3 filed an application for execution of the decree obtained by him in his suit and in the execution proceedings an order of attachment was passed in respect of the property of the local police officer under the provisions of Order XXIII Rule 32 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
This Court set aside the order of the Executing Court on the police officers appeal on two grounds, first because the police officer was no longer present in the District to obstruct or continue obstructing the legal process, and second, because the police officer could not be said to be a party against whom the decree for injunction had been passed merely because he was an employee of the State of U.P.	None
The next decision cited by the plaintiff is Surinder Kumar vs. Ishwar Dayal 1996(3) SCC 103 also pertained to a right under a decree perpetually injuncting the defendant from constructing a window on a common wall.	None
On the finding that a new wall was constructed, it was held that the injunction did not continue to operate.	None
The final decision cited by the plaintiff is Municipal Board, Kishangarh vs. Chand Mal, 1999 (9) SCC 198.	None
In this case a lessee had filed a suit to restrain the Municipal Board from interfering with the construction on leasehold land.	None
Subsequent to the suit, the lease was terminated and the land was included within the municipality.	None
This Court was of the view that in such circumstances, the original decree permanently injuncting the Board from interfering with the construction to be made by the lessee could be considered.	None
The principles that emerge from these decisions are that (a) There is a distinction between a final peremptory injunction and a final decree which requires a continuous course of action.(a)	Reasoning
A decree granting a preventive injunction continuously operates to prevent a course of action and(c)	Reasoning
Such a decree may be modified prospectively if the circumstances, whether of fact or law on which the decree is based, are substantially altered and(d) such a decree cannot be impeached or reopened.52.	Reasoning
It is only if the decree is one which grants a continuous injunction an dif conditions (b), (c), and (d) are fulfilled that proceedings for modification of the decree can be maintained.53.	Reasoning
In the present case the decree granted a final mandatory injunction.	Reasoning
Punjabs contention is that the injunction granted by this Court was temporary merely because in the course of the judgment of the Court said.	Reasoning
We have examined the materials from the standpoint of existence of a prima facie case, balance of convenience and irreparable loss and injury and we are satisfied that the plaintiff has been able to establish each one of the aforesaid criteria and as such is entitled to the injunction sought for.	None
This issue is accordingly answered in favour of the plaintiff and against the defendants.	None
A decree cannot reach a prima facie conclusion.	Reasoning
The use of the phrase prima facie was clearly an accident of language and does not detract from the conclusiveness of the finding and the finality of the mandate It directed the construction of a canal as a final adjudication of rights.	Reasoning
This is apparent from the following passage We unhesitatingly hold that the plaintiffState of Haryana has made out a case of issuance of an order of injunction in the mandatory from against the State of Punjab to complete the portion of SYL Canal, which remains incomplete and in the event the State of Punjab fails to complete the same, then the Union GovernmentDefendant 2 must see to its completion, so that the money that has already been spent and the money which may further be spent could at least be utilized by the countrymen.	None
The operative portion of the judgment resolves any doubt as to the finality of the injunction by holding We, therefore, by way of a mandatory injunction, direct the defendantState of Punjab to continue the digging of SutlejYamuna Link Canal, portion of which has not been completed as yet and make the canal functional within one year from today.	None
We also direct the Government of IndiaDefendant 2 to discharge its constitutional obligation in implementation of the aforesaid direction in relation to the digging of canal and if within a period of one year SYL Canal is not completed by the defendantState of Punjab, then the Union Government should get it done through its own agencies as expeditiously as possible, so that the huge amount of money that has already been spent and that would yet be spent, will not be wasted and the plaintiffState of Haryana would be able to draw the full quantity of water that has already been allotted to its share.	None
The mandate in the decree was to carry out the obligations under agreement dated 31st December, 1981.	Reasoning
It did not envisage a continuing process over which the equity court necessarily retains jurisdiction in order to do equity Principle (b) relating to modification of decrees enunciated earlier is therefore absent.	Reasoning
In any event there has been no change in the circumstances on the basis of which the decree was passed.	None
Although there is a discussion on the various issues while rejecting the submissions made by Punjab, ultimately the reasons for issuing the injunction were two.	None
The first was the agreement dated 31st December, 1981 and the order of this Court permitting the withdrawal of the two cross suits filed by Haryana and Punjab (OS 1 of 1979 and OS 2 of 1979).	None
This is apparent from the following passage The State Governments having entered into agreements among themselves on the intervention of the Prime Minister of the country, resulting in withdrawal of the pending suits in the Court, cannot be permitted to take a stand contrary to the agreements arrived at between themselves.	None
We are also of the considered opinion that it was the solemn duty of the Central Government to see that the terms of the agreement are complied with in toto.	None
The second was (T)he (a)admitted fact that for construction of the Punjab portion of SYL Canal, more than Rs. 560 crores have already been spent, as is apparent from Ext. P13 and the entire money ahs been paid by the Government of India (M)ore than Rs.700 crores of public revenue cannot be allowed to be washed down the drain, when the entire portion of the canal within the territory of Haryana has already been completed and major portion of the said canal within the territory of Punjab also has been dug, leaving only minor patches within the said territory of Punjab to be completed.	None
The decree was not based on the quantum of water that may be made available to Haryana.	Reasoning
Therefore the fact that Punjabs complaint is pending under Section 3 of the InterState Water Disputes Act, 1956 or that Haryana may, in the future, be entitled to more water is immaterial.	Reasoning
For the same reason the principle (if any) of the right to ask for a review of water allocations would not apply.	Reasoning
Nor was the decree based on the Punjab Settlement.	None
It was noted that the parties had acted on the agreement and that despite the fact that Punjab sought to reopen the agreement dated 31st December, 1981 in so far as it related to the quantum of water to be shared between the two States under Paragaph 9.1 and 9.2 of the Punjab Settlement, the construction of the SYL canal under paragraph 9.3 canal remained undisputed.	None
The Court accepted Punjabs submission that the Punjab Settlement was not binding on the State but said having regard to the fact that in terms of paragraphs 9.1 and 9.2, a Tribunal was constituted and even the provisions of the InterState Water Disputes Act were amended, thereby granting parliamentary recognition to the socalled agreement, the terms of the said agreement cannot be thrown out as a piece of paper only.	None
It is evident that the Punjab Settlement was referred to as a piece of evidence that the parties had kept the construction of the canal distinct from the disputes relating to the sharing of river waters between the two States.	Reasoning
If the other clauses in the Punjab settlement are allegedly not being complied with by Haryana that is not a change of circumstance or ground for modification of the decree passed on 15th January, 2002.	Reasoning
The challenge to Section 14 of the Inter State Water Disputes Act, 1956 is also inapposite to the question of modification of the decree.	Reasoning
The section related to and was in enforcement of paragraphs 9.1 and 9.2 of the Punjab Settlement and relates to the resolution of the water disputes between the States by the Tribunal.	Reasoning
Paragraph 9.3 which related to the canal and referred to by the Court does not form part of Section 14.	Reasoning
It has not been averred that either of the two grounds which founded the decree have in any sense of the word changed.	Reasoning
Principle (c) is therefore unfulfilled.	Reasoning
And finally Principle (d) the suit for modification of the decree dated 15th January, 2002 will not be because the decree itself has been sought to be impeached.	None
The injunction, whether right or wrong, is not subject to impeachment in its application to the conditions that existed at it making Per Cardozo, J, United States vs. Swift Co. (supra).	None
In other words since the plaint in the present suit does not even ex facie fulfill all four conditions subject to which a decree may be modified, there is no legal right to apply for modification of the decree dated 15 January, 2002 within the meaning of Article 131.	Reasoning
We can therefore only conclude that there is no cause of action within the meaning of Article 131 as far as the prayers relating to the discharge of the injunction granted by the decree dated 12th January, 2002 is concerned.	Reasoning
We then take up the direct challenge to the decree itself as being unconstitutional.	None
Two grounds have been pleaded in the plaint in this connection That it was a decision of two Judges whereas Article 145(3) of the Constitution requires a minimum of five Judges for the purpose of deciding any case involving a substantial question of law as to the interpretation of the Constitution(2)	None
The second ground is that the decree sought to resolve a water dispute in contravention of Article 262 of the Constitution.	None
Both the submissions are inter related.	None
Article 145(3) was relied on because it was said that the scope of Article 131 and 262 had to be interpreted.	None
We had said in the judgment dated 15th January, 2002, that in the Constitution Bench decision in State of Karnataka vs. State of A.P. 2000(9) SCC 572 this Court had considered the provisions of Article 262(2) of the Constitution and Section 11 and Section 2(c) of the InterState Water Disputes Act and its impact on a suit filed under Article 131 of the Constitution.	None
By that decision two cross suits were disposed of (O.S.	None
No 1/1997 by the State of Karnataka vs. State of A.P. and O.S. No. 2/ 1997 by the State of A.P. vs. State of Karnataka).	None
Two separate judgments were delivered.	None
The State of A.P. had prayed for 14 reliefs but, the Court observed, the reliefs essentially related to the construction of the Almatti Dam on the river Krishna by the State of Karnataka to a height of 524.056 metres.	None
Several issues were framed (at p.627).	None
Issue No.2 related to the jurisdiction of this Court to entertain and try the suit under the provisions of Article 262 of the Constitution and Sections 11 and 2(c) of the InterState Water Disputes Act, 1956.	None
The issue was conceded by the State of Maharashtra which had raised the issue.	None
Over and above that, the Court was independently of the view (p.640) that this Court had the jurisdiction to entertain and hear the suit and answered issue 2 in the affirmative.	None
Punjabs review petition was dismissed by us on the ground that the socalled vital question with regard to the interpretation of Article 131 and Article 262 has been answered in the Constitution Bench decision and we are bound by the same.	None
In the impugned judgment, we merely applied the interpretation of the Constitution Bench of the provisions of Articles 131 and 262 to the facts of the case.	None
There was no further interpretation of Article 131 and 262 to be done in the case before us which required to the decision of a bench of five judges under Article 145(3).	None
The objection as to the jurisdiction of this court on the basis of Article 262 was specifically negatived in the judgment dated 15th January 2002 when it was held The construction of SYL Canal has absolutely no connection with the sharing of water between the States and as such is not a water dispute within the meaning of Section 2(c) and consequently the question of referring such dispute to a Tribunal does not arise.	None
In this view of the matter, howsoever wide meaning the expression water dispute in Section 2(c) of the InterState Water Disputes Act be given, the construction of the canal which is the subject matter of dispute in the present suit cannot be held to be a water dispute within the meaning of Section 2(c) of the Act and as such, such a suit is not barred under Article 262 of the Constitution read with Section 11 of the InterState Water Disputes Act.	None
Can the State of Punjab raise these issues again?	None
Or is it barred by the principles of res judicata that the principles of res judicata are law within the meaning of Order 26 Rule 6(b)?	None
The doctrine of res judicata and Order XXXII Rule 2 are not technical rules of procedure and are fundamental to the administration of justice in all Courts that there must be an end of litigation.	None
Thus, when this Court was called upon in Daryao vs. State of U.P. 1962(1)	None
SCR 574, 582, 583 to hold that res judicata could not apply to connection with proceedings before this Court under Article 32 because of the extraordinary nature of the jurisdiction, it was said But is the rule of res judicata merely a technical rule or is it based on high public policy?	None
If the rule of res judicata itself embodies a principle of public policy which in turn is an essential part of the rule of law then the objection that the rule cannot be invoked where fundamental rights are in question may lose much of its validity.	None
Now, the rule of res judicata as indicated in s.11 of the Code of Civil Procedure has no doubt some technical aspects, for instance the rule of constructive res judicata may be said to be technical but the basis on which the said rule rests is founded on considerations of public policy.	None
It is in the interest of the public at large that a finality should attach to the binding decisions pronounced by Courts of competent jurisdiction, and it is also in the public interest that individuals should not be vexed twice over with the same kind of litigation.	None
If these two principles from the foundation of the general rule of res judicata they cannot be treated as irrelevant or inadmissible even in dealing with fundamental rights in petitions filed under Art.	None
32The binding character of judgments pronounced by courts of competent jurisdiction is itself an essential part of the rule of law and, the rule of law obviously is the basis of the administration of justice on which the Constitution lays so much emphasis.	None
ibid at p.584.	None
This opinion was followed in the matter of Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal 1993 Supp.	None
(1) SCC 96(II) and applied to suits under Article 131.	None
The factual background of that case was a dispute over the usage of the waters of the river Cauvery between the States of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.	None
The Union Government constituted the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal and referred the disputes between the two States to the Tribunal.	None
The State of Tamil Nadu filed an application for interim relief.	None
This was rejected by the Tribunal on the ground that it did not have the jurisdiction to grant any interim relief because that dispute had not been referred to it by the Central Government.	None
Being aggrieved, the State of Tamil Nadu approached this Court under Article 136.	None
The Special Leave Petitions were converted into civil Appeals and disposed of by Order dated 26th April, 1991 by holding that the order of Reference showed that the Central Government had in fact referred the issue relating to interim relief to the Tribunal.	None
The Tribunal than granted interim relief on Tamil Nadus application.	None
Karnataka subsequently issued an Ordinance relating to the utilization of water of the Cauvery and gave it overring effect over any interim order of any Court to Tribunal.	None
The Ordinance was replaced by an Act.	None
In the meanwhile a suit was filed under Article 131 by the State of Karnataka against the State of Tamil Nadu contending that the Tribunals order granting interim relief was without jurisdiction and, therefore, null and void etc.	None
In the context of these developments, the President referred three questions to this Court for its opinion under Article 143 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Of the three questions , question No.3 raised the issue whether a Water Disputes Tribunal constituted under the Interstate Water Disputes Act, 1956 was competent to grant any interim relief to the parties in the dispute.	Reasoning
This Court approached the question from two angles namely (1) when no reference for grant of interim relief is made to the Tribunal and (2) when such reference is made to it.	Reasoning
The Court held that by its earlier decision of 26th April, 1991 it had been specifically held that the Central Government had made a reference to the Tribunal for consideration of the claim for interim relief prayed for by the State of Tamil Nadu.	None
Implicit in the said decision was the finding that the Central Government could refer the matter of granting interim relief to the Tribunal for adjudication.	None
Although the Court had in such earlier decision kept open the question whether the Tribunal would have the power to grant interim relief when no reference was made, it was held that the earlier decision had in terms concluded the second aspect of the question.	Reasoning
A submission was then made on behalf of the State of Karnataka that the earlier directions in the Courts order dated 26th April, 1991 should be declared as being without jurisdiction and void.	Reasoning
This Courts decision in A.R. Antulay, vs. R.S. Nayak, 1988(2) SCC 602, was relied on to contend that this Court could re hear the issue earlier concluded.	None
The decision was distinguished by this Court and it was held that the facts in A.R. Antulay are peculiar and the decision has to be confined to those special facts.	None
It was then held It cannot be said that this Court had not noticed the relevant provisions of the InterState Water Disputes Act.	None
The Court after perusing the relevant provisions of the Act which were undoubtedly brought to its notice, has come to the conclusion that the Tribunal had jurisdiction to grant interim relief when the question of granting interim relief formed part of the Reference.	None
There is further no violation of any of the principles of natural justice or of any provision of the Constitution.	None
The decision also does not transgress the limits of the jurisdiction of this Court.	None
We are, therefore, of the view that the decision being inter partes operates as res judicata on the said point and it cannot be reopened.	None
Since the doctrine of res judicata is an essential part of the rule of Law it follows that if the issues raised in the suit are barred by res judicata ex facie then this Court is required to reject the plaint in terms of Order XXIII Rule 6(b).	Reasoning
There is no substance in the submission of Punjab that even when there is no dispute of fact the issue of res judicata should be left for consideration at the trial of the suit.	Reasoning
The decision cited viz.	None
Surayya vs. Balagangadhar, AIR 1948 PC 3 is an authority for the proposition that the issue of res judicata must be specifically pleaded and is inapposite to the questions raised in this case.	None
Here the earlier proceedings have been referred to in the plaint and are matters of record.	None
As we have said both issues pertaining to the Courts jurisdiction under Article 145 (3) and 262 have been considered and decided by this Court.	None
The issues have been concluded inter partes and cannot be raised again in proceedings inter partes.	None
The same objection relates to the challenge to Section 78 of the Punjab Reorganization Act, 1966.	None
In paragraph 18 of the written statement filed by the State of Punjab in O.S. No. 6/96 there is an express challenge to Section 78 of the Punjab Reorganisation Act for want of legislative competence.	None
But there is an additional ground apart from res judicata for holding that the issue as to the constitutional validity of the Section 78 cannot be raised.	None
The State of Punjab had earlier filed a suit, being O.S. No. 2 of 1979 in this Court challenging the validity of section 78 of the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1976.	None
In paragraphs 3 to 11 of the plaint, the constitutional validity of Section 78 of the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966 had been specifically challenged.	None
The following prayer among other prayers was made Declaration that the provisions of the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966 in so far as they purport to authorise the Central Government to make determination with respect to the waters of the river Beas Project and allocation or distribution of such waters is ultra vires the competence of Parliament and violative of Article 246(3) of the Constitution.	None
As far as OS No. 2/79 is concerned it was unconditionally withdrawn in view of the agreement dated 13th December, 1981 as has been noted earlier.	Reasoning
Rules 1 and 2 of Order XXXII of the Supreme Court Rules which relate to the withdrawal and adjustment of suits provides Rules 1, 2 and 3 of Order XXXII in the First Schedule to the code with respect of the withdrawal and adjustment of suits shall apply in suits instituted before the Court.2.	None
No new suit shall be brought in respect of the same subjectmatter until the terms or conditions, if any, imposed by the order permitting the withdrawal of a previous suit or giving leave to bring a new suit have been complied with.	None
Rule 2 therefore allows a plaintiff to file a fresh suit in respect of the same subject matter as the earlier withdrawn suit	None
only if.	None
the order of withdrawal imposed conditions and those conditions have been complied with or the order of withdrawal granted leave to the plaintiff to bring such fresh suit.	None
In the order allowing OS 2 of 1979 to be withdrawn no such conditions are present.	Reasoning
Consequently a fresh suit in respect of the same subject matter viz., the validity of section 78 of the 1966 Act does not lie.	Reasoning
We leave open the question as to whether it is open to the State of Punjab to question the vires of the statute by which it was created.	Reasoning
Similarly the challenge to Section 14 of the 1956 Act must be rejected at the threshold.	None
The section reads Constitution of Ravi and Beas Waters Tribunal  (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this Act, the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute a Tribunal under this Act, to be known as the Ravi and Beas Waters Tribunal for the verification and adjudication of the matters referred to in paragraphs 9.1 and 9.2 respectively of the Punjab Settlement.(2)	None
When a Tribunal has been constituted under subsection (1), the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) of Section 4, subsection (2), (3) (4) of Section 5 and Sections 5A to 13 (both inclusive) of this Act relating to the constitution, jurisdiction, powers, authority and bar of jurisdiction shall, so far as may be, but subject to subsection (3) hereof apply to the constitution, jurisdiction, powers authority and bar of jurisdiction in relation to the Tribunal constituted under subsection (1).(3) When a Tribunal has been constituted under subsection (1), the Central Government alone may also suo motu or at the request of the concerned State Government refer the matters specified in paragraphs 9.1 and 92.	None
of the Punjab Settlement to such Tribunal.	None
Explanation For the purposes of this section Punjab Settlement means the Memorandum of Settlement signed by New Delhi on the 24th day of July, 1985.	None
In paragraph 51 of Punjabs Written Statement in OS 6 of 1996, it was admitted that the issues referred to in paragraphs 9.1 and 9.2 of the Punjab settlement were referred to the RaviBeas Tribunal by Government notification dated 2nd April 1986 and the affirmation of the continued availability of water from the RaviBeas system as on 1.7.85 referred to in the notification was relied upon.	Reasoning
The notification dated 2nd April, 1986 was issued under Section 14 of the InterStates Water Disputes Act.	None
As far as the report of the Tribunal is concerned, paragraph 8 of the written statement says that it could not be relied upon because it had not become final and that Punjab did not accept the correctness of most of its findings.	None
There was no dispute raised as to the constitutionality of Section 14 at any stage.	None
Even in the course of arguments, when Section 14 was specifically to in elaborate written notes on the scope, purport and effect of Section 14, it was submitted that the effect of Section 14 is fourhold.	None
To overcome procedural hurdles that no dispute had been raised and to by pass the mandatory requirement of negotiations.	None
To deem matters referred under Section 14 to be a water dispute and place this beyond challenge.	None
To constitute this special section 14 Tribunal under this Act and not any other provision or statute and make the other provisions applicable.	None
To oust the jurisdiction of all Courts including the Supreme Court by making Section 11 applicable to this dispute.	None
To leave all other disputes relating to the Punjab settlement to be decided under the amended Act of 1956.	None
This Court in the judgment dated 15th January, 2002 considered the arguments of the parties relating to Section 14 and negatived Punjabs submission as to the construction of section 14.	Reasoning
Punjab could have challenged the constitutional validity of Section 14 in its written statement.	Reasoning
It did not then.	Reasoning
It cannot do so now being barred by the doctrine of res judicata.	Reasoning
In this suit Punjab has claimed that the section is ultra vires because i) the raisondetre for the introduction of Section 14 in the Act, 1956 was the assumption validity of Punjab Settlement i.e. Memorandum of Settlement dated 24.7.1985, which is incorrect as the said Settlement is not a valid or binding Agreement.ii)	None
The enactment of Section 14 is beyond the competence of Parliament since on the face of it, it is against the constitution Scheme as set out in the Constitution under Article 262 read with entry 56 of 7th Schedule, List 1.iii)	None
The special enactment has the effect of making a general legislation specific to Ravi Beas Waters.	None
This is discriminatory to the inhabitants of Punjab living in the RaviBeas Valley and is therefore, constitutionally invalid.iv) There can be no legislative enactment by Parliament in respect of an invalid Agreementv)	None
In any event and without prejudice to the foregoing no Agreement can be executed in part of the exclusion of other obligations imposed thereunder, as each obligation is an interconnected and dependent bargainvi) Because in any event and without prejudice to the foregoing, the Punjab Settlement has become incapable of being performed under the changed circumstances as also for the reasons that the State of Haryana has resiled therefrom and is unwilling to abide by the letter and spirit of the said Settlement.	None
From these reasons it also follows that Section 14 which is nothing but a statutory adjudication has no efficacy in law.vii)	None
In any event and without prejudice to the foregoing the purposes for which Section 14 was incorporated in the Act, 1956 have become redundant in the light of the facts and circumstances set out above and as the said provision is no longer capable of meeting the objectives for which it was purportedly enacted The challenge to Section 14 of the 1956 Act has been made without prejudice to Punjabs pending application under Section 5(3) of the Act.	None
Assuming such a reservation is legally possible the ground for submitting Section 14 of the 1956 Act is unsustainable is legally impermissible.	Reasoning
It is well established that constitutional invalidity (presumably) that is what Punjab means when it used the word unsustainable) of a statutory provision can be made either on the basis of legislative incompetence or because the statute is otherwise violative of the provisions of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Neither the reason for the particular enactment nor the fact that the reason for the legislation has become redundant, would justify the striking down of the legislation or for holding that a statute or statutory provision is ultra vires.	Reasoning
Yet these are the grounds pleaded in subparagraphs (i), (iv), (v), (vi) and (vii) to declare section 14 invalid.	Reasoning
Furthermore merely saying that a particular provision is legislative incompetent (ground (ii) or discriminatory (ground (iii) will not do.	Reasoning
At least prima facie acceptable grounds in support have to be pleaded to sustain the challenge.	Reasoning
In the absence of any such pleading the challenge to the constitutional validity of a statute or statutory provision is liable to be rejected in limine.84.	Reasoning
The grounds given in support of Punjabs challenge to Article 14 are exfacie no grounds in law and no cause of action has been disclosed to challenge the constitutional validity of Section 14 of the InterState Water Disputes Act, 1956.	Reasoning
Not only does the plaint filed by Punjab in OS 1 of 2003 not disclose any cause of action, but it is also evident from the statements in the plaint and the suit is barred by law.	Reasoning
The plaint is accordingly rejected leaving open the other issues raised by Haryana in support of its application.85.	Reasoning
Additionally and in the ultimate analysis, it is manifest that the suit has been filed only with a view to subvert the decision of this Court with all the disingenuousness of a private litigant to resist its execution.	Reasoning
We have, in the circumstances, no compunction whatsoever in dismissing the suit under Order XLVII Rule 6 of the Rules.	None
I.A.	None
No. 1 of 2003 filed by the State of Haryana in O.S.1 of 2003 is accordingly allowed.	Decision
The plaint is rejected and Suit 1 of 2003 (State of Punjab vs. State of Haryana) is dismissed with costs.	None
A. No. 4 in O.S. 6 of 1996 Haryana has asked for enforcement of the decree dated 15th January, 2002 under Article 142 of the Constitution read with clause 2(b) of the Supreme Court (Decrees and Orders) Enforcement Order 1954 (hereinafter referred to a the 1954 Order) praying that the Court may (a) issue directions to the Union of India (Defendant No.2) to carry out its obligations under the decree and for the purpose(i) nominee Border Roads (Organisation) (BRO) as the construction agency charged with the task of completing and making functional the SYL canal as expeditiously as possible, and in any case within a period of one year from the date of this Honble Courts order on this application(ii) Nominate the Central Water Commission (CWC) as the agency to provide technical guidance and supervision to the construction agency(iii)	Arguments of Petitioner
Appoint a High Powered Committee consisting of the Secretaries referred to in paragraph 16H (iii) to monitor the functioning of the above agencies and to submit progress reports to this Honble Court on a monthly basis.(b)	Arguments of Petitioner
In the event the Union fails to carry out the above directions within a period of four weeks, issue order nominating and appointing the agency for construction, the agency for providing technical guidance and the High Powered Committee and direct all of them to carry out their respective tasks as specified in prayer (a) above.(c)	Arguments of Petitioner
Pass such other or further order or orders or such directions as this Honble Court may deem fit and proper in the facts and circumstances of the case and to meet the ends of justice.	Arguments of Petitioner
The basis of the application is the failure of the State of Punjab to either continue or complete portion of the SYL canal in the Punjab territory within the period specified in the Decree and the subsequent failure of the Union of India to take any steps to complete the canal through its own agencies.	None
The State of Punjab has filed a counter affidavit in which it has asked for deferring the application for execution on the ground of OS 1 of 2003 has been filed, that a prayer in the suit had been made for discharge from the mandatory injunction and that a letter of complaint had been filed under Section 3 of the InterState Water Disputes Act, 1956.	Arguments of Respondent
Punjab has also submitted that the application for execution was not maintainable, because Haryana had not applied for orders in terms of Clause 2(b) of the 1954 Order, that draft issues had been filed by Haryana and Punjab in Suit 1 of 2003 pursuant to an order passed by this Court dated 24.11.2003 in that suit, that water disputes were to be resolved on the basis of Punjabs complaint under Section 3 of the 1956 Act, that the Decree sought to be executed was liable to be modified under the changed circumstances, and that the Decree was a nullity.	Arguments of Respondent
On the merits it is denied that nothing was done by the State of Punjab to continue or complete the portion of the canal within its territory and that the Borders Roads Organisation (BRO) did not have the requisite experience for constructing SYL Canal and finally that the Haryanas prayer for appointment of a High Court Powered Committee showed that the Decree dated 15th January, 2002 is not executable in the ordinary course.90.	Arguments of Respondent
The Union of India has also filed a counter affidavit in which it has stated that it has already taken steps to implement and comply with the Decree within the constitutional limitations.	Arguments of Respondent
It has referred to several meetings held and also the correspondence exchanged between the parties.	Arguments of Respondent
It has however, submitted that the BRO was committed to carrying out work in border areas and in Jammu and Kashmir in particular till the year 2016 and that it would not be possible to deploy BRO for the purpose of construction of the canal.	Arguments of Respondent
It has said that it has asked for the engineering details from the State of Punjab, who had executed the works and in whom the control of the works are vested at present.	Arguments of Respondent
It has also submitted that the possession of the SYL canal works needs to be handed over by the State of Punjab to the agencies as may be selected by the Union of India and that Budget estimates would have to be made for completion of the canal.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the Union an action plan has been prepared in which provision has been made for setting up a High Court Powered Committee, but, it submitted there was no necessarily for the High Powered Committee to report back to his Court.	Arguments of Respondent
As far as nomination of the Central Water Commission is concerned, it says that this might cripple the chances of other more suitable agencies.	Arguments of Respondent
It has finally been submitted that the State of Punjab should be directed to extend its fullest cooperation and protection for the completion of the work by the Union of India.	Arguments of Respondent
The Unions affidavit although filed in answer to I.As No. 1 and 3 in O.S. No. 6 of 1996 was, it its instance, directed to be treated as its answer to I.A. No.4 (vide this Courts order dated 17th December 2003).	Arguments of Respondent
Punjab was required to complete the canal by 15th January, 2003 by the decree.	None
Instead of accepting the decree in good grace every possible step has been taken to thwart the decree.	None
The minutes of the meetings and the correspondence exchanged between the parties during this period shows that the State of Punjab did not comply with this Courts directives on the ground that Punjab would await the final report of the RaviBeas Water Tribunal (2) the farmers of the State had filed a review petition in this Court in which the Government was a party.	None
The matter was subjudice and Punjab was not in a position to start the digging of the canal.	None
(3) the Government of Punjab intended to file another revision petition before this Court.	None
(4) that the construction of SYL canal was likely to produce strong adverse reaction among the people of Punjab and may also provide an emotive issue to secessionists militant elements and the construction of SYL canal would lead to drying up of 9 lakh hectares land in the Punjab and Suit No. 1 of 2003 had been filed.	None
Incidentally, the fourth ground is almost a verbatim reproduction of Punjabs stand in the proceedings filed by it earlier.	None
There was no stay granted by this Court at any stage of any of the various proceedings filed assailing the decree.	None
Even when the final assault was made by the filing of Suit No. 1 of the 2003 we did not grant any stay and it is basic law that the mere filing of proceedings does not operate as a stay.	None
The correspondence and the record of minutes show that the Chief Minister as well as the Government officials named in the correspondence have arrogated themselves the power of sitting as a superjudicial body over this Court.	None
The Constitution provides for an ordered polity within this country to promote integrity of the country.	None
When disputes arise between States there are usually political underpinnings.	None
The resolution of such a dispute in favour of one party will invariably have a political impact.	None
Article 131 of the Constitution has therefore given this Court the exclusive jurisdiction to decide such a dispute strictly on legal considerations and in keeping with the provisions of the Constitution.	None
To resist the execution of the decree on the ground that it would have a political fall out would result in subversion of the Constitution, an endorsement of anarchy and the disintegration of the country.	None
Apart from rendering the provisions of Article 131 a dated letter such a stand is contrary to Article 144 which requires all authorities, civil and judicial, in the territory of India shall act in aid of the Supreme Court.	None
It is not in the circumstances expected, that Governments whether at the Centre or in the States, will not comply with the decree of this Court.	Reasoning
By refusing to comply with the decree of this Court under Article 131 not only is the offending party guilty of contempt but the very foundation of the Constitution which the people governing the State have sworn to uphold when assuming office and to which this country owes its continues existence is shaken.	Reasoning
It is, we repeat, the Constitutional duty of those who wield power in the States to create the appropriate political climate to ensure a respect for the constitutional processes and not set such processes at naught only to gain political mileage.	Reasoning
As was observed by the Constitution Bench in Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal (supra) when an Ordinance was passed by a State seeking to nullity the order of this Court.	None
Such an act is an invitation to lawlessness and anarchy, inasmuch as the Ordinance is a manifestation of a desire on the part of the State to be a judge in its own cause and to defy the decisions of the judicial authorities.	None
The action forebodes evil consequences to the federal structure under the Constitution and opens doors for each State to act in the way it desires disregarding not only the rights of the other States, the orders passed by instrumentalities constituted under an Act of Parliament but also the provisions of the Constitution.	None
If the power of a State to issue such an Ordinance is upheld it will lead to the breakdown of the constitutional mechanism and affect the unity and integrity of the nation.	None
These observations appositely reflect what can be said with regard to the conduct of the State of Punjab.	None
In any event there is now no question of deferring Haryanas application for execution because the suit itself, namely O.S. No.1 of 2003 has been dismissed.	None
The vague plea relating to the possible rise of militancy by the construction of the canal is not an acceptable defence at all.	None
The fact that a letter of complaint has been filed under Section 3 of the 1956 Act is immaterial as that pertains to a water dispute within the meaning of Section 2(c) of the 1956 Act and we have already held that the construction of SYL canal is not a water dispute within the meaning of the 1956 Act read with Article 262 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
We have already held that the decree cannot be said to be a nullity.	Reasoning
In any event this is not a question which can be raised while opposing an application for execution.	Reasoning
What remains of Punjabs opposition is its submission that the application of Haryana is not maintainable under the 1954 order.	Reasoning
The 1954 Order has been issued by the President in exercise of powers under Article 142(1) of the Constitution.	None
Punjabs objection to the maintainability of Haryanas application for execution because of alleged noncompliance with paragraph 2(d) of the 1954 Order is unsustainable.	None
We quote paragraph 2 before giving our reasons in support of this conclusion Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law in force at the commencement of this Order, any decree passed or order made by the Supreme Court whether before or after such commencement including any order as to the costs of and incidental to any proceedings in that Court shall be enforceable(a) where such decree or other was passed or made in exercise of its appellate jurisdiction  in accordance with the provisions of law for the time being in force relating to law for the time being in force relating to the enforcement of decrees or orders of the Court or Tribunal from which the appeal to the Supreme Court was preferred or sought to be preferred and(b) in any other case  in accordance with the provisions of law for the time being in force relating to the enforcement of decrees or orders of such Court, Tribunal or authority as the Supreme Court may specify in its decree or order or in a subsequent order made by it on the application of any party to the proceeding.	None
The decree passed by this Court under Article 131 being an original proceeding would not be covered by clause 2(a)	None
Clause 2(b) empowers this Court to specify the law according to which the decree may be enforced.	None
The phrase used is in accordance with and not under.	None
In accordance with in the context implies similarity or harmony but not identity.	None
The mode of enforcement which may be specified under clause 2(b) may therefore be similar to the methods of execution legally provided in respect of decrees or orders of any Court.	None
Tribunal or Authority.	None
The specification of the mode may be done in the decree itself or by a subsequent order made on an application of any party to the proceeding.	None
The decree in this case had not specified the mode of execution.	None
Haryanas application is expressed to be under clause 2(b) of the 1954 Order.	None
Doubtless Haryana has suggested the passing of directions to ensure implementation of the decree which may not be acceptable to us, but it has in prayer (c) prayed for such other or further order or orders or such directions as this Honble may deem fit and proper in the facts and circumstances of the case and to meet the ends of justice.	None
That prayer is sufficient to meet even the entirely technical objection of Punjab and it cannot be said that Haryanas application is not maintainable.	Reasoning
As to the mode of execution section 51 of the Code of Civil Procedure Provides Power of Court to enforce execution.	None
Subject to such conditions and limitations as may be prescribed the Court may, on the application of the decreeholder, order execution of the decree (a) by delivery of any property specifically decreed(b) by attachment and sale or by the sale without attachment of any property(c) any arrest and detention in prison for such period not exceeding the period specified in section 58, where arrest and detention is permissible under that section(d) by appointing a receiver or(e) in such other manner as the nature of the relief granted may require.	None
The residuary power under Section 51 (e) allows a Court to pass orders for enforcing a decree in a manner which would give effect to it.	Reasoning
The period specified in the decree for completion of the canal by Punjab is long since over.	Reasoning
The Union of India has said that it had worked out a contingent action plan during this period.	Reasoning
The contingency, in the form of expiry of the oneyear period in January 2003 has occurred.	Reasoning
We have not been told whether the contingency plan has been put into question.	Reasoning
Although it appears that the Cabinet Committee on Project Appraisals had approved the proposal for completion of the SYL canal by the BRO and at a meeting convened as early as on 20th February 1991, the then Prime Minister directed that the BRO take over the work for completion of the SYL Canal in the minimum time possible, the BRO is not now available for the purpose.	Reasoning
After the decree the Central Water Commission Officials have inspected the canal on 9th October, 2002.	None
The report has assessed a minimum period of about two years for removing silt deposits, clearing of trees and bushes, completing the damaged and balance works and making the canal functional and has estimated an amount of about Rs.250 crores for this purpose excluding the liabilities of Punjab.	Decision
In the circumstances we direct the Union of India to carry out its proposed action plan within the following time frame1)	Decision
The Union of India is to mobilize a Central agency to take control of the canal works from Punjab within a month from today.2)	Decision
Punjab must hand over the works to the Central Agency within 2(two) weeks thereafter.3)	Decision
An empowered committee should be set up to coordinate and facilities the early implementation of the decree within 4(four) weeks from today.	Decision
Representatives of the States of Haryana and Punjab should be included in such Committee4)	Decision
The construction of the remaining portion of the canal including the survey, preparation of detailed estimates and other preparatory works such as repair, desilting, clearance of vegetation etc. are to be executed and completed by the Central Agency within such time as the High Powered Committee will determine.5) The Central and the Punjab Governments should provide adequate security for the staff of the Central Agency.98.	Decision
We conclude this chapter with a reminder to the State of Punjab that Great states have a temper superior to that of private litigants, and it is to be hoped that enough has been decided for patriotism, the fraternity of the Union, and mutual consideration to bring it to an end.	Decision
Commonwealth of Virginia vs. State of West Virginia 55 L.ed.	Decision
353.99.	Decision
Application 4 of 2003 in OS 6 of 1996 is thus allowed on the aforesaid terms without any order as to costs.	Decision
