 B. Sinha, J. These appeals are directed against a common judgment and order dated 5.1.2004 passed by a Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court in O.S.A. Nos.67, 68 and 70 of 2003 whereby and whereunder a judgment and order dated 8.10.2003 passed by a learned Company Judge in C.A. No. 771 of 2003 was affirmed.	Issue
Background fact NGEF Ltd., (for short, the Company) herein, was a joint venture of the Government of Karnataka, holding 90.18 shares and EHG Electro holding GMBH holding 9.72 shares therein.	Facts
The Company became sick, whereupon a reference was made to the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (for short, BIFR) in terms of the provisions of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 (for short, SICA).	Facts
It is not in dispute that virtually all its assets had been placed either under mortgage and or offered as collateral security to various financial institutions amongst which the State Bank of Mysore was the lead bank.	Facts
It is furthermore not in dispute that from time to time the Company with the permission of BIFR and its secured creditors has been selling some of its surplus lands, inter alia, for the purpose of paying wages to the workers and refund of loans to the financial institutions etc.	Facts
It had sold 29.225 acres of land to the Nuclear Power Corporation for a sum of Rs.63.65 crores 1.65 acres of land to CDAC for about Rs.4.29 cores and 0.625 acres of land to Indian Oil Corporation for Rs.1.63 crores.	Facts
All the vendees were public sector undertakings.	Facts
It is also not in dispute that the State of Karnataka took a decision to make disinvestment of its shares in the said Company pursuant whereto or in furtherance whereof global tenders were invited by it in terms of an advertisement dated 15.9.2001.	Facts
The First Respondent herein, Chandra Developers Pvt. Ltd. (for short, Chandra Developers) submitted its bid for purchase of 40.45 acres of land offering the price of Rs.125/ per sq. ft. which was later enhanced to Rs.278 per sq. ft.	Facts
Allegedly, valuation of lands had been done by Tata Economic Consultancy Services and Ernst Young Pvt.	Facts
Ltd.	Facts
The offer of the First Respondent was said to have been accepted by the Board of Directors in its meeting dated 25.2.2002.	Facts
The Company, it appears, has also submitted an application to BIFR as regard progress made by it in its attempt to privatize the Company, and praying for a direction to the financial institutions to release their charge over the assets of the Company so as to enable it to sell its surplus lands.	Facts
BIFR, however, upon considering the matter in some details by its order dated 19.4.2002 opined that the Company cannot be revived.	Facts
Before BIFR some of the parties pleaded that the Company should not be wound up but BIFR decided to recommend winding up of the company and sent the same to the High Court.	Facts
As regard request of the Company for sale of its assets, an observation was made by BIFR in its order dated 24.08.2002 that the Company would have to seek an appropriate direction from the concerned High Court.	Facts
Proceedings before the High Court Upon receipt of the said recommendations, the High Court of Karnataka registered the same as Company Petition No. 154 of 2002.	Facts
The Respondent herein filed an application before the learned Company Judge of the High Court purported to be under Rules 6 9 of the Companies (Court) Rules praying for a direction upon the Company to execute a deed of sale in its favour in respect of the said 40.45 acres of land relying on or on the basis of the said purported resolution dated 25.02.2002, alleging that the same constituted a concluded contract between the parties.	Facts
Objections to the said application were filed by the Appellants herein.	Facts
By reason of an order dated 8.10.2003, the said application was allowed on the premise that the agreement between the Chandra Developers and the Company constituted a concluded contract in relation to sale of 40.45 acres of land.	Facts
A Review Application was filed by the Appellant herein which came to be dismissed.	Facts
Three appeals were preferred from the said order viz.	Facts
by the EHG, State Bank of Mysore and the Company before the Division Bench of the High Court which came to be dismissed by reason the impugned Judgment.	Facts
However, the learned Company Judge appears to have dismissed an identical application filed by M s Salapuria Housing (P) Ltd.	None
being C.A. No.1589 of 2003, which had been relied upon by the First Respondent herein in its application, holding that the Company Court had no such jurisdiction.	None
Submissions Mr. T.R. Andhiyarujina, the learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellants, in Civil Appeal Nos. 51995201 of 2004, would, inter alia, contend that the learned Company Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court misdirected themselves in passing the impugned judgment and order insofar as they failed to take into consideration that BIFR retains the control over the assets of the company in terms of subsection (4) of Section 20 of SICA and, thus, it was BIFR alone which could issue a direction as regard sanction of sale of assets of the company in respect whereof the learned Company Judge had no jurisdiction.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any event, the learned Company Judge had no jurisdiction to issue any direction to the Company to execute a deed of sale which amounted to grant of a decree for specific performance of contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any view of the matter, the finding of the Company Judge to the effect that there existed a concluded contract between the First Respondent and the Company is wholly erroneous.	Arguments of Petitioner
10.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sundara Varadan, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the State Bank of Mysore appearing in Civil Appeal Nos.520305 of 2004, supplemented the submissions of Mr. Andhyarujina, contending that the learned Company Judge had a duty, in larger interest of the creditors, to obtain the best price for the lands sold.	Arguments of Petitioner
Our attention, in this connection, has been drawn to the fact that the total dues of the secured creditor banks and financial institutions as on 26.02.2003 was Rs.5825.31 lakhs towards fund based facilities and Rs.522.93 lakhs towards nonfund based facilities and, thus, the consideration amount was not sufficient to meet the liabilities of the Company.	Arguments of Petitioner
The contentions raised by the State Bank of Mysore, the learned counsel would submit, as contained in various paragraphs of the objections had not been taken into consideration either by the Company Judge or by the Division Bench of the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel would urge that assuming that such contentions had not been raised during argument as was observed by the Division Bench, it was the duty of the Company Judge to take into consideration those aspects of the matter.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged that the considerations which arise before a Company Judge for confirmation of sale are relevant factors for the purpose of directing execution of a deed of sale even in a private transaction.	Arguments of Petitioner
11.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel would argue that had a suit for specific performance of contract been filed by a vendee against the Company, the latter as also the Government of Karnataka could have raised several contentions including one that the court should not in the facts and circumstances of the case exercise its discretionary jurisdiction in favour of the First Respondent herein.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that having regard to the statutory scheme and in particular the provisions contained in Sections 443, 446 and 447 read with Section 529A of the Companies Act, 1956 the Company Judge cannot be held to have any inherent power to direct the Company to execute a deed of sale and more so whence a Provisional Liquidator had not been appointed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such a direction could only be issued to the Official Liquidator.	Arguments of Petitioner
The First Respondent herein was represented by Mr. Dushyant A. Dave, Mr. Udaya Holla and Mr. K.K. Venugopal.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Dave would submit that the power of the Company Judge as also BIFR being concurrent, the latter could ask the company to approach the High Court for a direction as regard sale of its surplus lands.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel would contend that in view of the fact that global tenders had been invited and the same having been accepted by the learned Company Judge, this Court may not exercise its jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Dave would argue that the statutory scheme envisages various stages of winding up as would appear from Section 456(1), subsections (1) and (3) of Section 150, Sections 457, 446(2) and Section 536(2) of the Companies Act, in terms whereof the learned Company Judge had the requisite jurisdiction to direct sale of lands in a case of this nature.	Arguments of Respondent
Relying on or on the basis of a decision of this Court in M s Kayjay Industries (P) Ltd. vs. M s Asnew Drums (P) Ltd. and Others (1974) 2 SCC 213 , the learned counsel would contend that the discretion exercised by the learned Company Judge cannot be said to be arbitrary meriting interference by this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Holla, has drawn our attention to a letter of the Government of Karnataka dated 30.07.2002, and submitted on the basis thereof that the Government of Karnataka had agreed to grant approval to such sale by mutual agreement by asking the Company to approach the High Court for the said purpose.	Arguments of Respondent
Our attention has specifically been drawn to the orders passed by BIFR, the learned Company Judge as also the Division Bench of the High Court to show that apart from advancing an argument that application for according sanction for sale of land could only have been filed before BIFR, no other contention had been raised by the Appellants herein.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Holla would submit that even Article 100 of the Memorandum of Association of the Company to which a reference has been made by this Court while issuing notice on 8.3.2004 is not attracted as in terms thereof approval of the Government was not necessary.	Arguments of Respondent
It has, however, been contended that a new Memorandum of Articles of Association has come into being clause (6) of Article 100 whereof is as under To let, mortgage, charge, sell or otherwise dispose of, subject to the provisions of section 293 of the Act, any property of the Company either absolutely or conditionally and in such manner and upon such terms and conditions in all respects as they think fit and to accept payment or satisfaction for the same in cash or otherwise, as they think fit.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, in terms of the said provision, the approval of the Government of Karnataka was not necessary.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that the court has inherent power to direct sale of assets of a company during the pendency of winding up proceedings even before the winding up order is passed in terms of section 536(2) of the Companies Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted that sanctity of an auction sale should be maintained and in the event auctions are set aside and reauctions are ordered on less satisfactory material, loss to exchequer would be far greater.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. K.K. Venugopal, the learned Senior Counsel, would submit that having regard to subsection (2) of Section 536 of the Companies Act, the High Court has the jurisdiction to permit sale of assets of the company even before passing of the winding up order, in relation whereto Section 20(4) of SICA will have no application.	Arguments of Respondent
It was urged that the provisions of both the statutes must be read together and so read, it would be manifest that when a winding up proceeding is initiated under the recommendations of BIFR in terms of Section 20(1), the power of the Company Court to order approval of a disposition, prior to passing of winding up order, would not in any manner be affected by the provisions of SICA, in view of the provisions contained in subsection (2) thereof whereby and whereunder the Company Court has been empowered to proceed with the winding up of the sick industrial company in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956.	Arguments of Respondent
As regard application of subsection (4) of Section 20 of SICA, it was urged that thereby the right of BIFR is also preserved for issuing any necessary direction as regard sale of the assets of the company and by reason thereof the jurisdiction of the Company Court has not been taken away.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel would contend that the provisions of SICA did not intend to denude the Company Court of its power under Section 536(2) read with Rule 9 of the rules once the recommendations for winding up by BIFR are made.	Arguments of Respondent
On the other hand, Section 20(2) and Section 22A of SICA acknowledge the powers of the Company Court and in that view of the matter there being no inconsistency between the Companies Act and SICA, Section 32 thereof will have no application.	Arguments of Respondent
As regard the requirement of the approval of the Government of Karnataka, it was urged that the Articles of Memorandum of Association of the Company cannot control and render ineffective the exercise of statutory power under the Companies Act and in that view of the matter as the High Court has approved sale in favour of the First Respondent after examining the documents, it is not open to the Government of Karnataka to act as an Appellate Authority thereover.	Arguments of Respondent
Relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 1956, Companies (Court) Rules, 1958 SICA	None
The provisions relating to winding up by the courts occur in Chapter II of the Companies Act, 1956.	None
Section 433 of the Act enumerates the circumstances in which company may be wound up by the court including inability on the part of the company to pay its debts.	None
Section 441 of the Act specifies as to when the proceeding for winding up of a company by the court shall commence at the time of the presentation of the petition for the winding up.	None
In a case, however, where winding up proceedings are initiated in terms of recommendations made by BIFR or AAIFR, as the case may be, no such petition is required to be presented.	None
Section 443 lays down the power of a court on hearing petition clause (d) of Subsection (1) whereof provides for a power to make an order for winding up of the company with or without costs or any other order that it thinks fit.	None
Section 444 lays down the consequences of winding up order.	None
In terms of Section 446 of the Act, in the event of passing of a winding up order or appointment of liquidator as provisional liquidator, no suit or legal proceeding would commence or if pending at the date of the winding up order, shall not be proceeded with against the company except by leave of the court and subject to such terms as the court may impose.	None
Subsection (2) of Section 446 provides for a non obstante clause, in terms whereof the company court shall have jurisdiction to entertain or dispose of any suit or proceedings specified therein.	None
Section 451 lays down general provisions as to liquidators.	None
Section 457 specifies the power of the liquidator which is required to be exercised with the sanction of the court.	None
Subsection (2) of Section 536 reads as under Avoidance of transfers, etc., after commencement of winding up.	None
xxx xxx xxx (2) In the case of a winding up by the Tribunal any deposition of the property (including actionable claims) of the company, and any transfer of shares in the company or alteration in the status of its members, made after the commencement of the winding up, shall unless the Tribunal otherwise orders, be void.	None
Rules 6, 9 99 of Companies (Court) Rules, 1959 read as under Practice and procedure of the Court and provisions of the Code to apply.	None
Save as provided by the Act or by these Rules, the practice and procedure of the Court and the provisions of the code so far as applicable, shall apply to all proceedings under the Act and these Rules.	None
The Registrar may decline to accept any document which is presented otherwise than in accordance with these Rules or the practice and procedure of the court.	None
9.	None
Inherent powers of Court.	None
Nothing in these Rules shall be deemed to limit or otherwise affect the inherent powers of the Court to give such directions or pass such orders as may be necessary for the ends of justice or to prevent abuse of the process of the Court.	None
99.	None
Advertisement of petition.	None
Subject to any directions of the Court, the petition shall be advertised within the time and in the manner provided by Rule 24 of these Rules.	None
The advertisement shall be in Form No.48.	None
Subsections (1), (2) and (4) of Section 20, Section 22A Section 32(1) of SICA read as under Where the Board, after making inquiry under section 16 and after consideration of all the relevant facts and circumstances and after giving an opportunity of being heard to all concerned parties, is of opinion that the sick industrial company is not likely to make its net worth exceed the accumulated losses within a reasonable time while meeting all its financial obligations and that the company as a result thereof is not likely to become viable in future and that it is just and equitable that the company should be would up, it may record and forward its opinion to the concerned High Court.	None
(2) The High Court shall, on the basis of the opinion of the Board, order winding up of the sick industrial company and may proceed and cause to proceed with the winding up of the sick industrial company in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956.	None
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (2) or subsection (3), the Board may cause to be sold the assets of the sick industrial company in such manner as it may deem fit and forward the sale proceeds to the High Court for orders for distribution in accordance with the provisions of section 529A, and other provisions of the Companies Act, 1956.	None
22A. Direction not to dispose of assets.  	None
The Board may, if it is opinion that any direction is necessary in the interest of the sick industrial company or creditors or shareholders or in the public interest, by order in writing, direct the sick industrial company not to dispose of, except with the consent of the Board, any of its assets (a) during the period of preparation or consideration of the scheme under section 18 and (b) during the period beginning with the recording of opinion by the Board for winding up of the company under subsection (1) of section 20 and up to commencement of the proceedings relating to the winding up before the concerned High Court.	None
32.	None
Effect of the Act on other laws.	None
(1) The provisions of this Act and of any rules or schemes made thereunder shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law except the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 and the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1976 for the time being in force or in the Memorandum or Articles of Association of an industrial company or in any other instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act.	None
Approval of State The First Respondent herein admittedly filed an application for direction to the Company to execute a deed of sale, inter alia, on the premise that a concluded contract had been entered into by and between it and the Company purporting to be relying upon or on the basis of the resolution dated 25.02.2002 of the Board of Directors of the Company.	None
It is not in dispute that along with the said application while annexing the copy of the resolution, the following sentence had been omitted.	None
MD stated that the Board decision for the above sale will be forwarded to the Government of Karnataka and seek their formal approval.	None
The First Respondent, as noticed hereinbefore, has relied upon a Government Order issued by the Government of Karnataka dated 30.07.2002, which reads as follows The company shall wind up the loan amount sanctioned to it by the Government in full from the proceeds of sale of assets of NGEF Ltd and It is, however, not in dispute that although the said Government Order was placed before BIFR, the same was not placed either before the Company Judge or before the Division Bench of the High Court.	None
The First Respondent furthermore relies upon a letter filed in Civil Appeal Nos.5203 05 of 2004, to show that the Government of Karnataka granted implied approval as the Company was asked to approach the High Court.	None
It, however, stands admitted that the First Respondent herein, offered its bid pursuant to or in furtherance of an advertisement issued by the Government of Karnataka and not by the Company.	None
BIFR, indisputably by an order dated 02.08.2002 stated 17.	None
Shri M. Gowda, DS, GOK submitted that GOK had decided to close the company subject to approval of BIFR and GO had been issued in this connection on 30.07.2002.	None
The company has cleared all the dues of FIs under OTS.	None
The working capital dues are secured by Govt., guarantee both for fund based and nonfund based dues.	None
Shri Gowda requested that permission be accorded to the company to sell the remaining assets in a transparent manner and discharge the liabilities of the secured creditors, employees and other creditors within a reasonable time.	None
On a query from the Bench, Shri Gowda clarified that the funds for VRS would be provided by the State Government.	None
Shri Govind Raj, MD of the company submitted that GOK had decided to close down the unit.	None
The company had been assured adequate funds from the State Govt., for VRS.	None
The company was having some problem in sorting out the outstanding issued with FIs, so much so that IFCI was demanding a sum of Rs.25,000/ for issuing NOC even though their dues have been fully paid.	None
The company was not able to fulfill the condition of working capital bankers for converting their second charge on the assets of the company into first charge because of non cooperation of FIs.	None
Canara Bank Financial Services were also not issuing NOC.	None
The company had sought permission to sell all the assets to generate funds to pay the workers dues, VRS dues, the dues of secured creditors and others.	None
The Bench noted that the company would have to seek further directions in the matter from the concerned High Court.	None
BIFR evidently, thus, asked the Company to approach the High Court if an occasion arises for obtaining sanction for disposing of its surplus lands.	None
The First Respondent herein was not a party before BIFR.	None
Before the Company Judge, however, it is the First Respondent herein, who filed the said application and, as indicated hereinbefore, obtained an order from the Company Judge by suppression of material fact that the Managing Director of the Company, having regard to the aforementioned resolution dated 25.02.2002 stated that the approval of the Government of Karnataka would be sought for.	None
The Order issued by the Government of Karnataka on 30.07.2002 does not suggest either expressly or by necessary implication that it had granted its approval for the said sale.	Reasoning
Whether such sanction was necessary is, however, another question which we shall advert to a little later.	Reasoning
We may at this juncture notice that arguments had been raised before the Division Bench of the High Court that the Government of Karnataka had not approved the said transaction which is itself a pointer to the fact that the Appellants herein never accepted that there had been a concluded contract.	Reasoning
It is also not correct to contend that the company will be acting as an appellate authority over the High Court, if its approval is sought for.	Reasoning
The question should, in fact, be considered from a different angle.	Reasoning
An application before the Company Judge, if at all, was maintainable only upon obtaining the approval of the Government of Karnataka and if such approval is granted, then only it would constitute a concluded contract.	Reasoning
It is accepted that the advertisement was issued by the State in the following terms While preference would be given for bids offering purchase of entire unit.	None
GOK reserves the right to accept reject any of the offers.	None
A party can bid for one or more alternatives.	None
In terms of the said advertisement, thus, the State reserved unto itself the right to accept or reject the said offer.	None
If the bid had been made pursuant to the said advertisement indisputably the States approval was necessary.	None
In any event the records were required to be placed before the State so as to enable it to apply its mind as to whether offer should be accepted or not.	None
The submission of Mr. Venugopal that in the event if it be held that the companys approval was necessary, the same would be contrary to the statutory power of the Company Court is, thus, misconceived.	Reasoning
It is also not correct to contend that the question as regard the concluded contract was not raised by the Appellants herein.	Reasoning
In fact, the Company filed a Review Petition before the Company Judge on 30.10.2003 wherein it was clearly averred that such a submission was not made in view of the observations of the learned Company Judge during the course of hearing that the issue whether there existed concluded contract would not be determined and as such there existed an error on the face of its order dated 8.10.2003.	Reasoning
The very fact that original advertisement was issued by the Government of Karnataka and there existed such a clause in the Memorandum of Association of the Company is suggestive of the fact that the Board of Directors of the Company proceeded on the basis that such approval of the Government of Karnataka was imperative.	None
Jurisdiction of the Company Court	None
The provisions of SICA contain nonobstante clauses.	None
It is a special statute.	None
It is a complete code in itself.	None
The jurisdiction of the Company Court in such matters would arise only when BIFR or AAIFR, as the case may be, has exercised its jurisdiction under Section 20 of SICA recommending winding up of the company upon arriving at a finding that there does not exist any chance of revival of the company.	None
Mr. Venugopal has placed reliance upon a decision of a learned Single Judge of the Karnataka High Court in Karnataka State Industrial Investment and Development Corporation Ltd. vs. M s Intermodel Transport Technology Systems and Others AIR 1998 (Karnataka) 195 for the proposition that despite the fact BIFR retains jurisdiction to get the assets of a sick company sold in terms of subsection (4) of Section 20 of SICA still the leave of the Company Court, therefore would be required.	None
The said decision, however has been reversed by the Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court in BPL Limited, Bangalore vs. Intermodal Transport Technology Systems (Karanataka) Limited, Bangalore (In Liquidation) and Others.	None
2001 (3) Kar.	None
L.J. 622 (DB), holding that the company Court has no such jurisdiction.	None
We generally accept the views of the Division Bench.	None
It is difficult to accept the submission of the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Respondents that both the Company Court and BIFR exercise concurrent jurisdiction.	None
If such a construction is upheld, there shall be chaos and confusion.	None
A company declared to be sick in terms of the provisions of SICA, continues to be sick unless it is directed to be wound up.	None
Till the company remains a sick company having regard to the provisions of subsection (4) of Section 20, BIFR alone shall have jurisdiction as regard sale of its assets till an order of winding up is passed by a Company Court.	None
Apart from the fact that subsection (4) of Section 20 contains a non obstante clause and, thus, it shall prevail over the provisions contained in subsection (2).	None
The said Act is also a latter statute.	None
The provisions of SICA would prevail over the provisions of the Companies Act.	None
Section 20 of SICA relates to winding up of the sick industrial company.	None
Before BIFR or AAIFR, as the case may be, makes a recommendation for winding up of the company, an enquiry is made in terms of Section 16 thereof wherefor all relevant facts and circumstances are required to be taken into consideration.	None
Before an opinion is arrived at in that behalf, the parties are given an opportunity of hearing.	None
The satisfaction arrived at by BIFR that the company is not likely to become viable in future and it is just and equitable that the company should be wound up must be based on objective criteria.	None
The High Court indisputably on receipt of such recommendation of BIFR would initiate a proceeding for winding up in terms of Section 433 of the Companies Act.	None
Subsection (2) of Section 536 ipso facto does not confer any jurisdiction upon the Company Court to direct sale of the assets of the sick company.	None
It has to exercise its power thereunder subject to the provisions of the special statute governing the field.	None
Despite the fact that the procedures laid down under the Companies Act would be applicable therefor	None
but they must be read with subsection (4) of Section 20 of SICA which contains a nonobstante clause and in terms thereof, BIFR is authorized to sell the assets of the sick industrial company in such a manner as it may deem fit.	None
By reason of the said provision, BIFR is also empowered to forward the sale proceeds to the High Court for orders for distribution in accordance with Section 529A and other provisions of the Companies Act which in no uncertain terms would mean that the distribution of the sale proceeds would be for the purpose of meeting the claims of the creditors in the manner laid down therein.	None
The intention of the Parliament in enacting the said provision becomes clear as in terms of Section 22A of SICA, BIFR is empowered to issue any direction in the interest of the sick industrial company or its creditors or shareholders and direct the sick industrial company not to dispose of its assets except with its assent.	None
Section 32, as noticed hereinbefore, again contains a nonobstante clause.	None
The scheme suggests that BIFR retains control over the assets of the company and in terms of the aforementioned provisions may either prevent any sale or permit any sale of the assets of the sick industrial company.	None
Such a power in BIFR remains till a winding up order is passed by the High Court and a stage arrives at for the High Court for issuing orders for distribution of the sale proceeds.	None
SICA was furthermore enacted subsequent to the provisions of the Companies Act.	None
It is not, thus, possible to accept the submission that the High Court exercises a concurrent jurisdiction.	None
It may be true that the High Courts jurisdiction is that of the Appellate Authority but keeping in view the terminology contained in sub section (4) of Section 20 read with Section 32 of the Act leaves no manner of doubt that the provisions of SICA shall prevail over the provisions of the Companies Act.	Reasoning
For the aforementioned purpose, it was not necessary for the Parliament to mention specifically the provisions of subsection (4) of Section 20 that the same shall prevail over Section 536 of the Companies Act, as was suggested by the learned counsel appearing for the First Respondent.	Reasoning
The construction of the provisions of both the Acts, as suggested by the learned counsel, that both the provisions of subsection (4) of Section 20 and Section 536 should be read conjointly so as to enable an applicant to obtain a sanction of both BIFR and the Company Court, thus, do not appeal to us.	Reasoning
It is inconceivable that in law not only the approval will have to be taken from both the courts in case of any private sale, the Company will have to obtain the consent of both the Company Court or BIFR.	Reasoning
While interpreting the provisions of the two statutes, the court cannot remain oblivious of the fact that in a given case, possibility of a conflict in the orders passed by the two courts may arise, which must be avoided.	Reasoning
It is interesting to note that a learned Single Judge of the said Court dismissed a similar application filed by M s Salapuria Housing (P) Ltd. although the First Respondents application categorically mentions about the pendency of the said application.	None
Inherent Power The Company Court has inherent power.	Reasoning
Such inherent power of the Company Court is saved in terms of Rules 7 and 9 of the Companies (Court) Rules.	Reasoning
The Company Court, therefore, may have the requisite jurisdiction to approve sale of the assets of a company but the question which arises for consideration is as to whether such inherent power can be exercised despite existence of a provision contained in another statute Section 32 of SICA contains a nonobstante clause stating that provisions thereof shall prevail notwithstanding anything inconsistent with the provisions of the said Act and of any rules or schemes made thereunder contained in any other law for the time being in force.	Reasoning
It would bear repetition to state that in ordinary course although the Company Judge may have the jurisdiction to pass an interim order in exercise of its inherent jurisdiction or otherwise directing execution of a deed of sale in favour of an applicant by the Company sought to be wound up but keeping in view the express provisions contained in subsection (4) of Section 20 of SICA such a power, in our opinion, in the Company Judge is not available.	None
See BPL Limited (supra).	None
We may, however, observe that the opinion of the Division Bench in BPL Limited (supra) to the effect that the winding up proceeding in relation to a matter arising out of the recommendations of BIFR shall commence only on passing of an order of winding up of the company may not be correct.	Reasoning
It may be true that no formal application is required to be filed for initiating a proceeding under Section 433 of the Companies Act as the recommendations therefor are made by BIFR or AAIFR, as the case may be, and, thus, the date on which such recommendations are made the Company Judge applies its mind to initiate a proceeding relying on or on the basis thereof, the proceeding for winding up would be deemed to have been started but there cannot be any doubt whatsoever that having regard to the phraseology used in Section 20 of SICA that BIFR is the authority proprio vigore which continues to remain as custodian of the assets of the Company till a winding up order is passed by the High Court.	Reasoning
Some precedents on courts power The decisions of the Karnataka and Bombay High Courts reported in Smt.	None
Usha R. Shetty and Others vs. Radeesh Rubber Pvt. Ltd. and Another 1995 (84) CC 602 and Kamani Metallic Oxides Limited vs. Kamani Tubes Limited 1984 (56) CC 19, relied upon by Mr. Holla cannot be said to have any application in the instant case.	None
The other decisions cited at the bar taking the similar view also have no application.	None
In Buckley on the Companies Acts , the law is stated, thus When the application should be made.	None
In an early case it was argued that the sanction of the court should be obtained before the transaction is entered into and cannot be given afterwards, but Malins VC, disagreed, for it would be almost impossible that directions could from time to time be obtained but when the matter is brought before the court, it must have regard to all the surrounding circumstances.	None
Vaisey J agreed that the object of the section is that, if a winding up order is made, any transaction which has been entered into since the commencement of the winding up shall be subject to review by the liquidator and held that he had no jurisdiction while the petition was pending.	None
Roxburgh J went to the other extreme and on an application made after the winding up order refused to validate the transaction on the ground that the applicant ought to have applied before the transaction was entered into.	None
Buckly J held that he had jurisdiction to sanction and did sanction while the petition was pending a proposed transaction which on any possible view would be beneficial to the creditors, one of the objects of the section being to protect the interests of the creditors during the pending of the petitions.	None
Since this last decision such orders have regularly been made, normally in one of two cases the first being where the proposed transaction is not in the ordinary course of business (as in the case last cited) and the second where it is necessary to persuade the companys bankers to unfreeze the account in order to enable the business to be carried on.	None
In Pankaj Mehra and Another vs. State of Maharashtra and Others (2000 (2) SCC 756 whereupon the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the First Respondent placed strong reliance, construction of subsection (2) of Section 536 of the Companies Act came up for consideration and it was held that having regard to the phraseology used therein, the transaction shall be void unless the court otherwise orders.	None
It is interesting to note that in para 19 thereof, this Court noticed the principles laid down in Grays Inn Construction Col. Ltd., Re 1980 (1) All.	None
E.R. 814 (CA) emphasizing the point that the courts would be very circumspect in the matter of validating the payments and the interests of the creditors as well as the company would be kept uppermost in consideration.	None
Thus, a disposition of assets during the interregnum may not be irretrievably void but the courts are required to exercise power with circumspection and caution.	None
Jurisdiction of the Company Court, if any, how should be exercised Assuming that the Company Court alone has the jurisdiction to sanction sale of the assets of a sick company, it having regard to its duties towards the debtors was required to apply its mind as regard the question as to whether the disposition of the asset of the company is in the interest of its creditors.	None
In this case, the company was not the applicant.	None
It did not join the First Respondent in its application.	None
It had all along resisted its claim.	None
In the winding up proceeding no order admitting the petition was passed at the relevant time.	None
Order admitting the petition was passed much later.	None
Even no provisional liquidator was appointed.	None
Reliance has been placed on a decision of the learned Single Judge of the Allahabad High Court in Bengani Food Products Private Ltd. vs. Official Liquidator and Others 1998 (94) CC 762 wherein it was held that the court has the jurisdiction to approve the disposition of the property provided it is found that the scheme or proposal which has been put forward is a viable scheme and would be in the interest of the creditors as well as beneficial for the general public.	None
It may be true that therein the Allahabad High Court was considering the case involving a sick industrial company but the questions which have been raised herein were not raised there.	Reasoning
The High Court considered the prayer made in the application and was of the opinion that the proposal given by the applicant was not a viable one for the benefit of the company or its creditors.	Reasoning
In the instant case, the said relevant factors were also not considered by the High Court.	Reasoning
In Sudarsan Chits (I) Ltd. vs. O. Sukumaran Pillai and Others (1984) 4 SCC 657 , this Court observed The Appellate Bench declined to direct the Provisional Liquidator to file claim petition at the instance of the Company under Section 446(2)(b) on the sole ground that such a petition at the instance of the Liquidator would be maintainable in the course of winding up of proceedings which means that the windingup proceedings are pending.	None
Undoubtedly, Section 446(1) manifests the legislative intention that the procedure thereunder prescribed could be availed of when the windingup order has been made or where the Official Liquidator is appointed as the Provisional Liquidator.	None
Section 446(1) envisages two situations in which the court will have jurisdiction to make the order thereunder contemplated.	None
These two situations are where a windingup order has been made or where the Official Liquidator has been appointed as Provisional Liquidator.	None
The first of the two situations envisages an order for windingup of the company having been made and which is subsisting.	None
The second situation is where without making a windingup order, the court has appointed Official Liquidator to be the Provisional Liquidator.	None
Section 450(1) of the Companies Act confers power on the Company Court to appoint Official Liquidator to be Provisional Liquidator at any time after the presentation of the windingup petition and before making of the windingup order.	None
The court before which a windingup petition is presented has power to appoint Official Liquidator as Provisional Liquidator of the company even before making the windingup order.	None
If ultimate windingup order is made, the Official Liquidator acts as such.	None
And let it be remembered that where a windingup order is made, it relates back to the date when petition for windingup is presented.	None
Referring to Section 446(1) it becomes clear that the court will have jurisdiction to make the order therein contemplated, where a winding up order has been made or prior to the making up of the windingup order, Official Liquidator has been appointed as Provisional Liquidator as contemplated by Section 450(1).	None
Once the Company Judge proceeds to direct disposition of assets of the Company whether during pendency of the proceedings or upon culmination thereof, ordinarily a provisional liquidator is appointed.	None
There lies a distinction between accord of sanction for private negotiation of sale of assets of the Company visavis the auction held by the Official Liquidator.	None
It is not in dispute that no Provisional Liquidator was appointed.	None
The court may have an inherent power to approve a transaction of sale entered into by and between the Company and the third party but it is beyond any cavil of doubt that while doing so the Company Court must bear in mind its duties towards the creditors.	None
While exercising jurisdiction under Section 433 of the Companies Act, the Company Court remains the custodian of the interest of the Company and its creditors.	None
It has, thus, a duty to satisfy itself that having regard to the market value of the property, the price offered is reasonable.	None
See M s Kayjay Industries (P) Ltd. (supra).	None
It is further more required to be borne in mind that upon liquidation, the assets and properties of the Company vest in the Official Liquidator for the benefit of its creditors.	None
See Allahabad Bank and Others vs. Bengal Paper Mills Co. Ltd. and Others (1999) 4 SCC 383 .	None
The satisfaction as regard adequacy of the price is one of the relevant factors for proper and reasonable exercise of the judicial discretion vested in it.	None
There cannot be any doubt or dispute that when an auction is held upon compliance of the statutory provisions, withholding of auction on the ground that still higher price may be obtained may prove to be selfdefeating exercise as has been held in M s Kayjay Industries (P) Ltd. (supra) and State of Punjab vs. Yoginder Sharma Onkar Rai Co. and Others (1996) 6 SCC 173 but having regard to the accepted position that the Company Judge in a case of this nature exercises a discretionary jurisdiction it is bound to act with great circumspection and caution.	None
Such a jurisdiction should ordinarily be exercised in exceptional cases and when necessary for seeing the company as an ongoing concern.	None
It may, furthermore, be true that before the Company Judge or before the High Court the secured creditors did not raise objections which have been raised before us although specifically taken in their objections, as would appear from paragraphs 7, 9, 11, 12 and 13 thereof, but if such considerations were relevant having regard to the statutory duties imposed upon the court, the learned Company Judge must be held to have failed and or neglected to exercise its discretionary jurisdiction in a fair and reasonable manner.	Reasoning
In any event having regard to the importance of the questions involved and in particular the question as to whether the impugned order is contrary to the statutory provisions contained in subsection (4) of Section 20, we have thought it proper to consider the same.	Reasoning
The Company Judge moreover will have to bear in mind the provisions contained in Section 529A of the Companies Act in terms whereof the dues of the workman and the debts due to the secured creditors to the extent such debts rank in clause (c) of the proviso appended to sub section (1) of Section 529 pari passu therewith and shall have a priority over all other debts.	None
In Andhra Bank vs. Official Liquidator and Another (2005) 5 SCC 75 , a threeJudge Bench of this Court, observed Section 446 of the Companies Act indisputably confers a wide power upon the Company Judge, but such a power can be exercised only upon consideration of the respective contentions of the parties raised in a suit or a proceeding or any claim made by or against the company.	None
A question of determining the priorities would also fall for consideration if the parties claiming the same are before the court.	None
Section 446 of the Companies Act ipso facto confers no power upon the court to pass interlocutory orders.	None
The question as to whether the courts have inherent power to pass such orders, in our opinion, does not arise for consideration in this proceeding.	None
Assuming such a power exists, it was imperative that the same should have been exercised on consideration of the factors laid down by this Court in Morgan Stanley Mutual Fund etc. vs. Kartick Das etc. (1994) 4 SCC 225 .	None
An unreasoned order does not subserve the doctrine of fair play See M s. Mangalore Ganesh Beedi Works Vs.	None
The Commissioner of Income Tax, Mysore and Anr.	None
JT 2005 (2) SC 442 .	None
It was further observed that for judging the correctness of an equitable order even the subsequent events can be taken into consideration.	Reasoning
In any view of the matter an equitable order passed by a Company Court in exercise of its inherent jurisdiction or otherwise must conform to the requirements of the relevant statutes.	Reasoning
See Manohar Lal Chopra vs. Rai Bahadur Rao Raja Seth Hiralal AIR 1962 SC 527 , Vareed Jacob vs. Sosamma Geevarghese and Others (2004) 6 SCC 378 National Institute of Mental Health Neuro Sciences vs. C. Parameshwara (2005) 2 SCC 256	None
In re A.I. Levy (Holdings) Ltd.	None
1964 (1) Chancery Division 19 Buckley J. while considering the provisions of Section 227 of the English Companies Act which is pari materia with Section 536(2) of the Indian Companies Act, opined that the object of the said section was to protect the interests of the creditors from the possible unfortunate results which would ensue from the presentation of a petition and to protect their interests as much during the period while the petition was pending as after an order has been made on it.	None
The said decision, therefore, does not lay down a law that the provision of Section 536(2) of the Act is meant to benefit the vendee.	None
In fact such a provision enures to the benefit of the creditors.	None
A Company Judge granting sanction in terms of the aforementioned provision, thus, has a duty to see that the transaction is one which must benefit the unsecured creditors of the company.	None
In A.I. Levy (Holdings) Ltd. (supra) it was held In these circumstances, this being a case in which it appears to me to be manifest that the transaction is one which must benefit the unsecured creditors of the company if in due course a winding up order is made, the reason which affected Vaisey J.s mind, that is to say, that the liquidator should be given an opportunity to investigate the matter and bring it before the court representing the interests of all the creditors, does not affect my mind, for I do not think the liquidator could make the position clearer to me than it is at the present time on the facts.	None
CONCLUSION BIFR had admittedly power to sell the assets of the Company but the High Court until a winding up order is issued does not have the same.	Reasoning
BIFR in its order dated 02.08.2002 might have made an observation to the effect that the Company may approach the High Court in case it intended to dispose of its property by private negotiation but the same would not mean that BIFR could delegate its power in favour of the High Court.	Reasoning
BIFR being a statutory authority in absence of any provision empowering it to delegate its power in favour of any other authority had no jurisdiction to do so.	Reasoning
Delegatus non potest delegare is a wellknown maxim which means unless expressly authorized a delegatee cannot subdelegate its power.	Reasoning
Moreover, the said observations of BIFR would only mean that the Company Court could exercise its power in accordance with law and not dehors it.	Reasoning
If the Company Court had no jurisdiction to pass the impugned order, it could not derive any jurisdiction only because BIFR said so.	Reasoning
In any view of the matter, BIFR had permitted only the Company to approach the High Court in case any occasion arises therefor.	Reasoning
BIFR did not permit any other person to do so.	Reasoning
The Company did not file such an application.	Reasoning
It opposed the prayer of the First Respondent The Company, as noticed hereinbefore, had preferred an appeal before the Division Bench of the High Court questioning the correctness of the order passed by the learned Company Judge.	Reasoning
The Company has since been directed to be wound up and is now being represented by the Official Liquidator who also questions the correctness of the order.	Reasoning
Before us an application has been filed by the Government of Karnataka for impleading it as a party being I.A. Nos.24 of 2005 in Civil Appeal No.51995201 of 2004 wherein also, the validity of the impugned order is in question.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter, we are of the opinion that the impugned judgment of the High Court cannot be sustained.	Decision
It is set aside accordingly.	None
For the reasons aforementioned, the Appeals are allowed.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
