 Mitter, J.1.	None
This is an appeal against an award dated December 21, 1963 in Industrial Dispute No. 28 of 1963 of the Industrial Tribunal, Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad on special leave granted by this Court.2.	Issue
The dispute which was referred to the Industrial Tribunal related to the question of payment of bonus for the years 196061 and 196162 demanded by the workers of Aam Jahi Mills, Warrangal.	Facts
The Tribunal found that there was an available surplus for the first year but none for the second.	Facts
It directed payment of bonus of one weeks wages to all the workmen over and above the two weeks bonus which the employers had agreed to pay irrespective of any profits made by the company.	Facts
In appeal before us, the appellants contend that as there was no available surplus if properly quantified, the question of payment of bonus in addition to that for the two weeks already agreed upon, does not arise.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is to be noted that the parties had entered into a settlement on February 22, 1960 which was to be operative for a period of five years commencing on October 1, 1958 and ending on September 30, 1963.	None
By that settlement, it was provided that the claim for bonus would only arise if there should be an available surplus after making a provision for all the prior charges including a fair return on paidup capital and on reserves utilised towards the working capital in terms of the Full Bench formula laid down by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in MillOwners Association v.	None
Rashtriya Mills Muzdoor Sangh, Bombay.	None
The agreement also provided that prior charges would include (a) statutory depreciation and development rebate, (b) taxes, (c) reserve for rehabilitation, replacement and modernisation of Block as calculated by the Industrial Court (basic year 1947) and (d) a fair return at 6 per cent on paid up capital in cash or otherwise including bonus shares and 2 per cent on reserves employed as working capital.	None
It was also a term of the agreement that the amount of the total gross profits of the mill for the year shall be the amount of profits as disclosed in published balance sheets of the company without making a provision for depreciation and for bonus, but after deducting from it the amount of extraneous income (like interest from investments, rent from property) which is unrelated to the efforts of the workers.	None
With regard to statutory depreciation and development rebate, the parties agreed that if in any year the total of these two exceed the amount of reserve for rehabilitation, the full amount statutory depreciation and development rebate would be adopted as a prior charge and no extra provision would be made for rehabilitation in that year.	None
Further, in terms of the agreement the workers would be entitled to an amount equivalent to 1/24th of the basic wages if the mill had an available surplus of profits after providing for all prior charges on the basis of the Full Bench formula as described above, up to an amount equivalent to 25 per cent of the total basic wages earned during the year.3.	None
The contention of the appellants before us is that in working out the available surplus the Tribunal went beyond the Full Bench formula and the settlement between the parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
Our task was considerably lightened by counsel for the appellants handing over a table showing the figures for the working out of the Full Bench formula, as found by the Tribunal compared to those propounded by the Management and the workers.	None
There is no dispute that the net profit as disclosed by the balance sheet for the year 196061 was Rs. 9,03,378.	Reasoning
The only difference between the management and the Tribunal with regard to the calculation of gross profits relates to the figures Rs. 5,39,963 for gratuity and retrenchment compensation paid by the company during the year in question.	Reasoning
According to the Tribunal, this sum should be spread over five years while according to the company, this sum should not be included at all as it had to be paid out of the profits of the company during the relevant year.4.	None
Mr. Sen, counsel for the appellants, relied on S. 37 (1) of the Incometax Act, 1961 for the purpose of showing that any expenditure (not being expenditure of the nature described in sections 30 to 36 and not being in the nature of capital expenditure or personal expenses of the assessee) laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the business or profession of the assessee has to be allowed in computing the income chargeable under the head profits and gains of business or profession.	Arguments of Petitioner
He argued that gratuity is to be paid every year to the workmen who retire and retrenchment compensation has to be paid as and when workmen are retrenched and that there could be little doubt that theseexpenses were incurred exclusively for the purpose of the business of the company.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also draw our attention to a judgment of this Court in Britannia Engineering Co. v. Their Workmen 19652 Lab LJ 144 (SC) where it was laid down that the amount of provident fund contribution and gratuity payments were not to be added back to the net profits disclosed by the balance sheet of the company for fixing the amount of gross profits in working out the Full Bench formula.	None
The Tribunal apparently recognised the force of the contention of the employers but observed that the amount should be distributed over a number of years which it fixed as five in this case.	None
This finding of the Tribunal is erroneous inasmuch as gratuity will have to be paid year after year to workmen who retire or leave the companys services in terms of the scheme of gratuity and retrenchment compensation may have to be paid in any year if there be modernisation of the plant, or for any other reason which renders any workmen superfluous.	None
It seems to us therefore, that the gross profits as calculated by the employers at Rs. 19,05,496 is the correct figure.5.	Reasoning
Coming next to the ascertainment of prior charges, the material discrepancy between the figures adopted by the company and those by the Tribunal arises thus  we find that the national normal, depreciation has been taken to be Rs	Reasoning
. 6,44,351 in both sets of charts but the Tribunal has deducted therefrom a sum of Rs. 1,50,000 in respect of idle machinery.	Reasoning
We are unable to accept this view of the Tribunal.	Reasoning
It is well settled that depreciation allowed under of Incometax Act after 1948 was to consist of the statutory normal depreciation as well as initial depreciation and additional depreciation.	Reasoning
The Full Bench formula of the Labour Appellate.	None
Tribunal decided in U. P. Electric Supply Co. Ltd. v. Their Workmen, 19552 Lab LJ 431 (LATIBom) that the depreciation which should be deducted from the gross profits in working the formula was normal depreciation but excluding the initial depreciation and additional depreciation allowable under the Incometax Act.	None
This decision was followed by another Labour Appellate Tribunal of India in Surat Electricity Companys Staff Union v. Surat Electricity Co. Ltd., 19572 Lab LJ 648 (LATIBom).There it was pointed out that the deduction allowed under the head of deprecation in the early years of the use of the machinery was rather heavy under the provisions of the India Incometax Act which would have the effect of unduly lessening the available surplus under the bonus formula to the prejudice of workers even in a year of prosperity and that is why the Full Bench postulated for a more even distribution of depreciation over a period of years.	None
This accounted for the ignoring of the initial and additional depreciation in working out the bonus formula.	None
The net result was that the depreciation to be taken into account for working out bonus formula was notional amount of normal depreciation.	None
No objection can be taken to this because the bonus formula itself is theoretical one.	None
Both these decisions were referred to in The Associated Cement Companies Ltd. v. Its Workmen, 1959 SCR 925 (AIR 1959 SC 967 ) and the latter decision was approved of by this Court (see at p. 960 of SCR) (at p. 987 of AIR).6.	None
We find by referring to Schedule E of the accounts of the Company for the year 196061 that depreciation for the year was calculated at Rs. 16,03,149.	Reasoning
This is also referred to in the Directors Report.	Reasoning
Deducting there form the sum of Rs. 9,58,789 which is referred to in the profit and loss account for the year 30th September 1961 as balance provision for depreciation to comply with S. 205 of the Companies Act 1956, we get the figure of Rs. 6,44,351.	Reasoning
Which is to be found in the chart both under the table of figures adopted by the management as also by the Tribunal.	Reasoning
The figure being a notional figure for working out the bonus formula, the Tribunal was not justified in deducting therefrom a further sum of Rs. 1,50,000 in respect of machinery which was said to be idle.7.	Reasoning
In terms of the agreement between the parties, the prior charges must include the development rebate as well unless the statutory depreciation and development rebate add up to a higher figure than the figure for reserve and rehabilitation.	Reasoning
It therefore appears to us that the Tribunal was not justified in excluding the amount of the development rebate reserve.	Reasoning
There is no dispute that the figure for incometax should be Rs. 4,74,020 or that for the return on paidup capital should be Rs. 4,32,000	Reasoning
The workmen in their chart have calculated the return at 4 per cent on Rs 72 lakhs which is not justified.	Reasoning
Both the Tribunal and the company calculated return on reserves used as working capital at Rs. 49,678 This, in our view, is not justified as we find from a reference to schedule E., (fixed assets of the company for the year 196061) that a sum of Rs. 14,49,664 was spent for addition of new plant and machinery.	Reasoning
On a reference to schedule A, B, C and D for the year in question and the corresponding figure for the previous year, we find that the figure of reserves and surplus in schedule A has gone down by Rs. 1,00,000.	Reasoning
The figure for secured loans in schedule C remains the same while the current liabilities as shown in schedule D has gone up by Rs 3,50,000 in the year in question as compared to the previous year and loans secured from banks show a reduction of Rs. 13,22,000.	Reasoning
Thus the liability in respect of the loans have been reduced approximately by Rs. 10 lakhs.	Reasoning
Setting off the diminution, the overall liability was diminished by 9 lakhs.	Reasoning
We also find from a reference to Schedule F. G. H. and I (of investments, current assets and loans by the company) that the total thereof has gone down by Rs. 8 lakhs from the figure of the previous year.	Reasoning
The net result seems to be that reduction of liability when set off against the reduction in the value of the assets and investments gives a deficit of Rs. 1.00,000 approximately.	Reasoning
As the company has not incurred fresh loans for the purpose of buying plant and machinery, we can proceed on the basis that Rs. 14,49,664 and Rs. 1 lakh have come out of the working capital.	Reasoning
Consequently, the reserves used as working capital should be approximately Rs. 24,83,000 as shown by the company less Rs. 15,49,664 i.e. Rs. 8,34,000 and the return thereon at 2 per cent would be approximate1y Rs. 16.000 in place of Rs. 49,678.	Reasoning
Further, we find that the Tribunal was not right in including Rs. 1,07,992 as gratuity and retrenchment compensation among its list of prior charges.8.	Reasoning
On the basis of the above, it seems to us that deducting the prior charges from the gross profits irrespective of the question of the amount to be deducted for rehabilitation modernisation etc. comes to the figure arrived at is Rs. 80.000 or thereabouts only.9.	Reasoning
There was a good deal of controversy between the parties with regard to the correct amount of the figure for rehabilitation.	None
In this connection, our attention was drawn to the evidence on record.	None
The Chief Engineer of the Company stated before the Tribunal that the machinery had been purchased in 1932, that its condition was bad due to figure and that it was costing more and more every year for repairs even up to Rs.	None
21/2 lakhs.	None
According to him, it required replacement, the average life of a textile mill being no more than 25 years.	None
The witness also said that one half of the entire machinery had been purchased and installed between 1948 and 1952 and the cost in 1952 was five times that of the 1932 figure.	None
The other witness examined or behalf of the employers was the secretary of the mill.	None
He stated that the provision for rehabilitation was Rs. 93,30,000, the working capital being Rs. 24,83,904.	None
He gave certain figures to show how the figure of Rs. 93,30,00 was arrived at.	None
He stated further that the company had approached the Government for a loan of Rs. 56 lakhs for replacement of the spinning machinery and part of the weaving machines.	None
The applications for loan is not in dispute before us.	None
As a matter of fact, the Tribunal accepted the evidence that the age of textile mill machinery was about 25 years and more than half the machinery had passed that age.	None
This justified the need for rehabilitation.	None
The Tribunal referred to a letter of the company to the Government dated October 10, 1963 according to which several experts had opined that the amount required for replacement of the old machinery was Rs. 56 lakhs.	None
The Tribunal added thereto the sum of Rs. 2 lakes for replacement of the buildings and thus arrived the total figure of rehabilitation of Rs. 58 lakhs.	None
In our opinion the figures arrived at by the Tribunal are acceptable but we have to deduct therefrom the amount of the reserves of the company.	Reasoning
According to us, as already shown, the reserves which could be used as working capital were no more shall Rs. 8,34,000.	Reasoning
Thus the total for rehabilitation comes to Rs. 50 lakhs approximately.	Reasoning
The Tribunal accepted the divisor 5 to give effect to the bonus formula on the basis that the cost of rehabilitation should be spread over five years.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the Tribunal proceeded on the right basis except on the figure of reserves which has to be deducted.	Reasoning
Dividing Rs.	Reasoning
50 lakhs by five, we get a figure of Rs. 10 lakhs.	Reasoning
In terms of the bonus formula therefore, there was no available surplus for the year l96061 but there was a deficit.10.	Reasoning
We were not impressed by the argument on behalf of the respondents that as no experts were examined before the Tribunal there was no basis for calculation of the provision for rehabilitation.	Arguments of Respondent
In this connection, our attention was drawn to a judgment of this Court in M s. Peirce Leslie and	Arguments of Respondent
Co. Ltd.	Arguments of Respondent
Kozhikode v. Their Workmen 19603 SCR194 (AIR 1960 SC 826 ).	Arguments of Respondent
It appears that in support of its claim in that case the company produced a number of statements prepared by witness who claimed to be experts showing the replacements value of buildings, machinery, furniture etc.	None
We were also referred to the judgment of this Court in Aluminium Corporation of India, Ltd. v. Their Workmen, 19632 Lab LJ 629 (SC).	None
On the facts of that case, it was observed by this Court that as there was no evidence adduced by the employer to substantiate its claim for the amount of rehabilitation, the same must be rejected.	None
In our view, the Tribunal must consider all the evidence before it and then proceed to ascertain the figure to be adopted for rehabilitation purposes.	None
If the company had no scheme for rehabilitation, then of course its claim on that head must be rejected.	None
Again, the claim made by the company cannot be accepted unless substantiated by evidence.	None
In this case, we find that half the machinery was over Rs. 2 lakhs every year for repairs according to the evidence of the Chief Engineer and that its efficiency had dwindled considerably.	None
We also see no reason to reject the evidence adduced before the Tribunal that the company had applied for a loan of Rs. 56 lakhs from the Government for rehabilitation purpose and we accordingly are of the view that the Tribunal proceeded on the correct basis so far as rehabilitation charges are concerned.11.	Reasoning
There remains the point about the working capital of the company.	Reasoning
No case is here made that the reserves of the company were being used for any purpose other than the business of the company.	Reasoning
The accounts of the company show that its secured liability exceeded Rs. 1,16,00,000 and its unsecured loans exceed Rs. 28,00,000.	Reasoning
Unless, therefore, there is evidence to show that the reserves were noexistent or they were being utilised for a purpose other than the business of the company, it is reasonable to assume that the reserves were being utilised as working capital of the company.12.	Reasoning
In our view, therefore, the Tribunal was not right in finding that there was available surplus for calculation of bonus for the year 196061 and the appeal No. 971 of 1965 must be allowed and the award set aside.13.	Decision
The other appeal No. 972 of 1965 which is by the workmen for enhancement of the bonus consequently must be dismissed.	Decision
The first appeal is, therefore, allowed with costs and the second appeal is dismissed, but, without any order as to costs.14.	Decision
Order accordingly.	None
