 Mahajan, J.1.	None
These are two crossappeals from the decision of the High Court at Calcutta in its appellate jurisdiction, dated 1721947, modifying the order of the Subordinate Judge of Howrah in Title Execution Case No. 68 of 1936.2.	Facts
The litigation culminating in these appeals commenced about thirty years ago.	Facts
In the year 1923, one Durga Prasad Chamria instituted a suit against the respondents, Radha Kissen Chamria Motilal Chamria and their mother Anardevi Sethani (since deceased) for specific performance of an agreement for sale of an immovable property in Howrah claiming a sum of Rs. ll,03,06383 and other reliefs.	Facts
The suit was eventually decreed on compromise on 1941926.	Facts
Under the compromise decree the plaintiff became entitled to a sum of Rs. 8,61,000 from the respondents with interest at 6 3/4 per cent.	Facts
with yearly rest from the date fixed for payment till realization.	Facts
Part of the decretal sum was payable on the execution of the solenama and the rest by installments within eighteen months of that date.3.	Facts
Within fifteen months from the date of the decree a sum of Rs. 10,00,987156 is said to have been paid towards satisfaction of it.	Facts
No steps were taken either by the judgmentdebtors or the decreeholder regarding certification of most of those payments within the time prescribed by law.	Facts
The judgmentdebtors after the expiry of a long time made an application for certification but the decreeholder vehemently resisted it and declined to admit the payments.	Facts
The result was that the Court only recorded the payment of the last three installments which had been made within ninety days before the application and the judgment debtors had to commence a regular suit against the decreeholder for recovery of the amounts paid, and not admitted in the execution proceedings.	Facts
In the year 1929 a decree was passed in favour of the judgmentdebtors for the amount paid by them and not certified in the execution.	Facts
In the meantime the decreeholder had realized further amounts in execution of the decree by taking out execution proceedings on two or three occasions.	Facts
The amount for which a decree had been passed against the decreeholder was also thereafter adjusted towards the amount due under the consent decree.4.	Facts
On 1731933 the decree was assigned by Durga Prasad to the appellant Keshardevi Chamira.	Facts
The execution proceedings out of which these appeals arise were started by the assignee on 1081936 for the realization of Rs. 4,20,69389 and interest and costs.	Facts
This execution had a chequered career.	Facts
To begin with, the judgment debtors raised an objection that the assignee being a mere benamidar of Durga Prasad Chamria had nolocus standito take out execution.	Facts
This dispute eventually ended in favour of the assignee after about five years fight and it was held that the assignment wasbona fideand Keshardeo was not a benamidar of the decreeholder.5.	Facts
On 1771942 Keshardeo made an application for attachment of various new properties of the judgmentdebtors and for their arrest.	Facts
Another set of objections was filed against this application by Radha Kissen Chamria.	Facts
He disputed the correctness of the decretal amount, and contended that a certain payment of Rs. 1,60,000 should be recorded and certified as made on 2851934, and not on the date the sum was actually paid to the decreeholder.	Facts
This objection was decided by the Subordinate Judge on 1191942 and it was held that the judgmentdebtors were liable to pay interest on the sum of Rs. 1,60,000 up to 1281936, and not up to 471941 as claimed by the assignee.	Facts
On appeal the High Court by its judgment dated 2261943 upheld the decreeholders contention, and ruled that the judgmentdebtors were liable to pay interest up to 471941 on this sum of Rs. 1,60,000.	Facts
The judgmentdebtors then applied for leave to appeal to the Privy Council against this decision and leave was granted.	Facts
On 1321945 an application was made to withdraw the appeals and withdrawal was allowed by an order of the Court dated 2021945.	Facts
Thus the resistance offered by the judgmentdebtors to the decreeholders application of 1771942 ended on 2021945.6.	Facts
The records of the execution case were then sent back by the High Court and reached the Howrah Court on 2821945.	Facts
The decreeholders counsel was informed of the arrival of the records by an order dated 231945.	Facts
The hearing of the case was fixed for 531945.	Facts
On 531945 the Court made the following order Decreeholder prays for time to take necessary steps.	None
The case is adjourned to 1031945 for order.	Facts
Decreeholder to take necessary steps by that date positively.	Facts
The decreeholder applied for further adjournment of the case and on the 10th the.	Facts
Court passed an order in these terms Decreeholder prays for time again to give necessary instructions to his pleader for taking necessary steps.	Facts
The Petition for time is rejected.	Facts
The execution case is dismissed on part satisfaction.	None
When the decreeholder was apprised of this order, he on 1931945 made an application under s. 151, Civil P. C., for restoration of the execution and for setting aside the order of dismissal.	Facts
On this application notice was issued to the judgment debtors who raised a number of objections against the decreeholders petition to revive the execution.	Facts
By an order dated 2541945, the subordinate Judge granted the decreeholder prayer and ordered restoration of the execution.	Facts
The operative part of the order is in these terms On 10345 the decreeholder again prayed for time for the purpose of giving necessary instructions to his pleader for taking steps.	Facts
That petition was rejected by me.	Facts
On 10345 by the same orderI mean the order rejecting the petition for adjournmentI dismissed the execution case on part satisfaction.	Facts
The learned counsel on behalf of the present petitioner wants me to vacate the order by which I have dismissed the execution case on part satisfaction.	Facts
He has invoked the aid of s. 15l, C. P. C., for cancellation of this order and the consequent restoration of the execution case.	Facts
I would discuss at the very outset as to whether I was justified in dismissing the execution case in the same order after rejecting the petition of the decreeholder for an adjournment without giving him an opportunity to his pleader to make any submission he might have to make after the rejection of the petition for time.	Facts
It is clear from the order that the fact that the petition for time filed by the decreeholder on 10345 was rejected by me was not brought to the notice of the pleader for the decreeholder.	Facts
It seems to me that there was denial of justice to the decreeholder in the present execution proceeding inasmuch as it was a sad omission on my part not to, communicate his pleader the result of this petition he made praying for an adjournment of this execution proceeding and at the same time to dismiss the execution case on part satisfaction which has brought about consequences highly prejudicial to the interest of the decreeholder.	Facts
I think S. 151, Civil P. C., is the only section which empowers me to rectify the sad omission I have made in not communicating to the pleader for the decreeholder as to the fate of his application for an adjournment of the execution case and as such I would vacate the order passed by me dismissing the execution case on part satisfaction.	Facts
The ends of justice far which the Court exists demand such rectification and I would do it.	Facts
The learned AdvocateGeneral on behalf of the judgmentdebtor Radha Kissen has argued before me that this Court has no jurisdiction to vacate the order passed by me on 10345 dismissing the execution case on part satisfaction.	Facts
His argument is that s. 48, C. P. C., stands in my way inasmuch as the law of limitation as provided in the above section debars the relief as sought for by the decreeholder in the present application.	Facts
I do not question the soundness of this argument advanced by the learned AdvocateGeneral.	Facts
The facts of this case bring home the fact that in the present case I am rectifying a sad omission made by me which brought about practically a denial of justice to the decreeholder and as such the operation of s. 45, C. P. C., does not come to the assistance of the judgmentdebtor Radha Kissen.	Facts
It would have saved considerable expense and trouble to the parties had the dismissal for default chapter been closed for ever by this order of the Judge the proceedings, however, took a different course.	None
A serious controversy raged between the parties about the correctness of, this obviously just order arid after seven years it is now before us.	Facts
An appeal and a revision were preferred to the High Court against this order.	Facts
By its judgment dated 2481945, the High Court held that no appeal lay against it as the question involved did not fall within the ambit of s. 47, Civil P. C. It, however, entertained the revision application and allowed it, and remanded the to the subordinate Judge for reconsideration and disposal in accordance with the observations made in the order.	Facts
The High Court took the view that the Subordinate Judge was in error in restoring the execution without taking into consideration the point whether the decreeholders pleader could really take any stepinaid of the execution if he had been apprised of the order of the Court dismissing the adjournment applications.	Facts
This is what the High Court saidThe ground put forward by the Subordinate Judge in support of his order for restoration is that the order rejecting the adjournment petition should have been communicated to the pleader for the decreeholder but this was not done.	Facts
We will assume that this was an omission on the part of the Court.	Facts
The question now is whether it was possible for the decreeholder to take any further steps in connection with the execution of the decree and thereby prevent the execution case from being dismissed for default.	Facts
No evidence was taken by the learned Subordinate Judge on this point and even the pleader who was in charge of the execution case on behalf of the decreeholder was not examined. . . . . . . .	Facts
If really the decreeholder was not in a position to state on that day as to what was the amount due under the decree for which he wanted the execution to be levied and if according to him it required elaborate accounting for the purpose of arriving at the proper figure it was not possible for him to ask the Court to issue any process by way of attachment of the property on that date.	Facts
It seems to us that the learned Judge should have considered this matter properly and he should have found on proper material as to whether the decreeholder could really take any steps after the application for adjournment was disallowed.	None
In sharp contrast to the opinion contained in the order of remand is the view now expressed by the High Court on this point in its final judgment under appeal One important circumstance which, in our opinion tells in favour of the decreeholder is the fact we have noticed before, namely, that after the petition for time was rejected the Court did not call on the execution case and otherwise intimate its decision to go on with it.	Facts
In one sense, this might be regarded as a mere error of procedure on the part of the Court which it would be wrong to allow the decreeholder to take advantage of, but an error it was, as was admitted by the learned judge himself who had dealt with the matter, and we do not think his opinion can be lightly brushed aside.	Facts
There can be no doubt that the learned judge was in the best position to speak as regards the actual proceedings in his Court on 1031945, and if he thought that it amounted to a denial of justice to have rejected the petition for time and by the same order to dismiss the execution case, it is not for us to say that he was not right.	Facts
It may well that even if the case was called on the decreeholders pleader would even then have been absent, but having regard to all the facts and circumstance of the case, we think the Court might yet give the decreeholder the benefit of doubt in this matter, and assume in his favour that his pleader would have appeared before the learned judge and tried to avert a peremptory dismissal of the execution case even, though he or his client might not have been fully ready with all necessary materials for continuing the execution.	Facts
proceeding.	Facts
As we have pointed out before, and as the Court below has also found, it was possible for the decreeholder or his pleader to have submitted to the Court some sort of an account of the decretal dues on that date after refusal of the adjournment but even if this could not be done, we.	Facts
still believe that the pleader, if he appeared, could have done something, either by drawing the Courts attention to some of its previous orders or otherwise, by which a dismissal of the case might be prevented.	Facts
It was not difficult to envisage what the counsel would have done when faced with such a dilemma.	None
He would have straightaway stated that the execution should issue for an amount which was roughly known to him, and that the Court should issue a process for the arrest of the judgmentdebtors.	Facts
By such a statement, he Would have saved the dismissal without any detriment to his client who could later make another application stating the precise amount due and praying for additional reliefs.7.	Facts
After remand on 1331946, the learned Subordinate Judge restored the execution case in respect of a sum of Rs. 92,000 only and maintained the order of dismissal in other respects.	Facts
He held that the decreeholder was grossly negligent on 5th and 10th March 1945 and that due to his negligence the execution case was dismissed in default that even if his pleader had been informed of the order rejecting the application for adjournment he could not have taken any steps to prevent the dismissal of the execution that the execution being now barred by limitation the judgment debtors should not be deprived of the valuable rights acquired by them but at the same time they should not be allowed to retain the advantage of an acknowledgment of a debt of Rs. 92,000 made by the decreeholder.8.	Facts
Both the decreeholder and the judgment debtors were dissatisfied with this order.	Facts
The decreeholder preferred an appeal to the High Court and also filed an application under s. 115, Civil P. C.	Facts
The judgmentdebtors filed cross objections in the appeal and also preferred an alternative application in revision.9.	Facts
The appeal, the crossobjections and the two revision applications were disposed of together by the High Court by its judgment dated 1721947.	Facts
The order dismissing the execution in default was set aside and the case was restored on terms.	None
The decreeholder was held disentitled to interest on the decretal amount from 1031945 to the date of final ascertainment of the amount of such interest by the executing Court and was ordered to pay to the judgmentdebtors a consolidated sum of Rs. 20,000 by way of compensatory costs.	None
He was to pay this amount to the judgmentdebtors within two weeks of the arrival of the records in the executing Court or have it certified in the execution.	None
In default the appeal was to stand dismissed with costs and the crossobjections decreed with costs.10.	None
An application for leave to appeal to His Majesty in council against this order was made by the judgmentdebtors and leave was granted to them on 3051947.	Facts
The decreeholder also applied for leave and he was granted leave on 2761946.	None
Both the appeals were consolidated by an order of the Court dated 4121947 and thereafter the appeals were transferred to this Court.11.	None
On behalf of the decreeholder it was contended that the High Court was wrong in allowing the judgmentdebtors Rs. 20,000 by way of compensation for costs, and that having regard to the terms of the compromise decree it had no jurisdiction to deprive the decreeholder of the interest allowed to him by the decree, and that had neither power nor jurisdiction under s.115, Civil P.C., to set aside the order dated 2541945 passed by Mr. Chakravarti, Subordinate Judge, under s. 151 of the said Code and that the interlocutory remand order of the High Court being without jurisdiction, all subsequent proceedings taken thereafter were null and void.12.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel for the judgment debtors not only supported the judgment of the High Court to the extent it went in their favour but contended that the High Court should have refused to restore the execution altogether and that the assumption made by it that the decreeholders pleader could do something to prevent the dismissal of the case or could present some sort of statement to, the Court was wholly unwarranted and unjustifiable.	Arguments of Respondent
It was urged that it ought to have been held that the decreeholder was guilty of gross negligence and he was himself responsible for the dismissal of the case, and that it was not necessary to formally call on the case after the rejection of the petition for adjournment and that a valuable right having accrued to the judgmentdebtors by efflux of time, they should not have been deprived of it in the exercise of the inherent powers of the Court.13.	Arguments of Respondent
It is unnecessary to consider all the points taken in these appeals because, in our opinion, the point canvassed on behalf of the decreeholder that the order of remand was without jurisdiction and that all the proceedings taken subsequent to the order of the executing Court reviving the execution were void, has force.	Reasoning
The sole ground on which the Subordinate Judge had ordered restoration of the execution was that he had himself made a sad mistake in dismissing it at the same time that he dismissed the adjournment application without informing the decreeholders counsel that the request for adjournment had been refused and without calling upon him to state what he wanted done in the matter in those circumstances.	Reasoning
As the Subordinate, Judge was correcting his own error in the exercise of his inherent powers, it was not necessary for him to investigate into the correctness of the various allegations and counter allegations made by the parties.	Reasoning
He was the best judge of the procedure that was usually adopted in his Court in such cases and there is no reason whatsoever for the supposition that when the Subordinate Judge said that he had not given any opportunity to the decreeholders pleader to take any steps in execution of the decree after the dismissal of the adjournment application he was not right.	Reasoning
It Could not be seriously suggested that such an opportunity was given to the decreeholder, the dismissal order of the execution having been made at the same moment of time as the order dismissing the application for adjournment.	Reasoning
It is quite clear that the interests of justice demanded that the decreeholders pleader should have been informed that his request for adjournment had been refused, and further given opportunity to state what he wanted, done in that situation.	Reasoning
It was wholly unnecessary in such circumstances to speculate what the pleader would have done when faced with that situation.	Reasoning
The solid fact remains that he was not given that opportunity and that being so, the order dismissing the execution was bad and was rightly corrected by the Court on its own initiative in the exercise of its inherent powers.14.	Reasoning
The point for determination then is whether such an order could be set aside by the High Court either in the exercise of its appellate or revisional powers.	None
It is plain that the High Court had no jurisdiction in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction to reverse this decision.	None
In the remand order itself, it was held that it was difficult to say that the order by itself amounted to final determination of any question relating to execution, discharge or satisfaction of a decree and that being so, it did not fall within the ambit of s. 47, Civil P. C. We are in entire agreement with this observation.	Reasoning
The proceedings that commenced with the decreeholders application for restoration of the execution and terminated with the order of revival can in no sense be said to relate to the determination of any question concerning the execution, discharge or satisfaction of the decree.	Reasoning
Such proceedings are in their nature collateral to the execution and are independent of it.15.	Reasoning
It was not contended and could not be seriously urged, that an order under s. 151 simpliciter is appealable.	Reasoning
Under the Code of Civil Procedure, certain specific orders mentioned in s. l04 and O. 43, R. 1 only are appealable and no appeal lies from any other orders (Vide s. 105, Civil P. C.).	Reasoning
An order made under s. 151 is not included in the category of appealable orders.16.	Reasoning
In support of his contention that an order made under s. 151 may in certain circumstances be appealable, Mr. Daphtary placed reliance on two single Judge judgments of the Madras High Court and on a Bench decision of Oudh.	Arguments of Respondent
(Vide Akshia Pillai v. Govindarajalu Chetty, A. I. R. 1924 Mad.	Arguments of Respondent
778 Govinda Padayachi v. Velu Murugiah Chettiar, A. I. R. 1933 Mad. 399 andNoor Mohammad v. Sulaiman Khan, A.I.R. 1943	Arguments of Respondent
Oudh 35.	Arguments of Respondent
In all these cases execution sale had been set aside by the Court in exercise of inherent powers and it was held that such orders were appealable.	None
The ratio of the decision in the first Madras case is by no means very clear and the reasoning is somewhat dubious.	None
In the other two cases the orders were held appealable on the ground that they fell within the ambit of s. 47, Civil P. C. read with s. 151.	None
It is unnecessary, to examine the correctness of these decisions as they have no bearing on the point before us, there being no analogy between an order setting aside an execution sale and an order setting aside the dismissal of an application.	None
The High Court was thus right in upholding the preliminary objection that no appeal lay from the order of the Subordinate Judge dated 2541945.17.	None
We now proceed to consider whether a revision was competent against the order of 2541945 when no appeal lay.	None
It seems to us that in this matter really the High Court entertained an appeal in the guise of a revision.	None
The revisional jurisdiction of the High Court is set out in s. 115 Civil P. C. in these terms The High Court may call for the record of any case which has been decided by any Court subordinate to such High Court and in which no appeal lies thereto, and if such subordinate Court appears (a) to have exercised a jurisdiction not vested in it by law, or(b) to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested, or(c) to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity, the High Court may make such order in the case as it thinks fit.	None
A large number of cases have been collected in Edn. 4 of Chitaley and Raos Code of Civil procedure (vol.	None
I), which only serve to show that the High Courts have not always appreciated the limits of the jurisdiction conferred by this section.	None
InMohunt Bhagwan Ramanuj Das v. Khetter Moni Dassi, 1 Cal.	None
W. N. 617, the High Court of Calcutta expressed the opinion that subcl.	None
(c) of s. 115, Civil P. C., was intended to authorise the High Courts to interfere and correct gross and palpable errors of subordinate Courts, so as to prevent grave injustice in non, appealable cases.	None
This decision was, however, dissented from by the same High Court inEnat Mondul v. Baloram Dey, 3 Cal.	None
W. N. 581, but was cited with approval by LordWilliams J. inGulabchand Bangur v. Kabiruddin Ahmed, 58 Cal. 111.	None
In these circumstances, it is worthwhile recalling again to mind the decisions of the Privy Council on this subject and the limits stated therein for the exercise of jurisdiction conferred by this section on the High Courts.18.	None
As long ago as 1894, inRajah Amir Hassan Khan v. Sheo Baksh Singh, 11 Ind. App. 237, the Privy Council made the following observations on s. 622 of the former Code of Civil Procedure, which was replaced by s.115 of the Code of 1908The question then is, did the Judges of the lower Courts in this case, in the exercise of their jurisdiction, act illegally or with material irregularity.	None
It appears that they had perfect jurisdiction to decide the case, and even if they decided wrongly, they did not exercise their jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity.	None
In 1917 again inBalakrishna Udayar v. Vasudeva Aiyar, 44 Ind. App. 261, the Board observedIt will be observed that the section applies to jurisdiction alone, the irregular exercise or nonexercise of it or the illegal assumption of it.	None
The section is not directed against conclusions of law or fact in which the question of jurisdiction is not involved.	None
In 1949, inVenkatagiri Ayyangar v. Hindu Religious Endowments Board, Madras, 76 Ind. App. 67, the Privy Council again examined the scope of s. 115 and observed that they could see no justification for the view that the section was intended to authorise the High Court to interfere and correct gross and palpable errors of subordinate Courts so as to prevent grave injustice in nonappealable cases and that it would be difficult to formulate any standard by which the degree of error of subordinate Courts could be measured.	None
It was said Section 115 applies only to cases in which no appeal lies, and, where the Legislature has provided no right of appeal, the manifest intention is that the order of the trial Court, right or wrong, shall be final.	None
The section empowers the High Court to satisfy itself on three matters, (a) that the order of the subordinate Court is within its jurisdiction (b) that the case is one in which the Court ought to exercise jurisdiction and (c) that in exercising jurisdiction the Court has not acted illegally, that is, in breach of some provision of law, or with material irregularity, that is, by committing same error of procedure in the course of the trial which is material in that it may have affected the ultimate decision.	None
If the High Court is satisfied on those three matters, it has no power to interfere because it differs, however profoundly, from the conclusions of the subordinate Court on questions of fact or law.19.	None
Later in the same year inJoy Chand Lal Babu v. Kamalaksha Chaudhury, 76 Ind. App. 131, their Lordships had again adverted to this matter and reiterated what they had said in their earlier decision.	None
They pointed out There have been a very large number of decisions of Indian High Courts on S. 115 to many of which their Lordships have been referred.	None
Some of such decisions prompt the observation that High Courts have not always appreciated that although error in a decision of a subordinate Court does not by itself involve that the subordinate Court has acted illegally or with material irregularity so as to justify interference in revision under subs.	None
(c), nevertheless, if the erroneous decision results in the subordinate court exercising a jurisdiction not vested in it by law, or falling to exercise a jurisdiction so vested, a case for revision arises under subs.	None
(a) or subs.	None
(b) and subs.(c) can be ignored.20.	None
Reference may also be made to the observations of Bose J. in his order of reference inNarayan Sonaji v. Sheshrao Vithoba, A. I. R. 1948 Nag. 258 wherein it was said that the words illegally and material irregularity do not cover either errors of fact or law.	None
They do not refer to the decision arrived at but to the manner in which it is reached.	None
The errors contemplated relate to material defects of procedure and not to errors of either law or fact after the formalities which the law prescribes have been complied with.21.	None
We are therefore of the opinion that in reversing the order of the executing Court dated 2541945 reviving the execution, the High Court exercised jurisdiction not conferred on it by s. 115 of the Code.	Reasoning
It is plain that the order of the Subordinate Judge dated 2541945 was one that he had jurisdiction to make, that in making that order he neither acted in excess of his jurisdiction nor did he assume jurisdiction which he did not possess.	Reasoning
It could not be said that in the exercise of it he acted with material irregularity or committed any breach of the procedure laid down for reaching the result.	Reasoning
All that happened was that he felt that he bad committed an error in dismissing the main execution while he was merely dealing with an adjournment application.	Reasoning
It cannot be said that his omission in not taking into consideration what the decreeholders pleader would have done had he been given the opportunity to make his submission amounts to material irregularity in the exercise of jurisdiction.	Reasoning
This speculation was hardly relevant in the view of the case that he took.	Reasoning
The Judge had jurisdiction to correct his own error without entering into a discussion of the grounds taken by the decreeholder or the objections raised by the judgmentdebtors.	Reasoning
We are satisfied therefore that the High Court acted in excess of its jurisdiction when it entertained an application in revision against the order of the Subordinate Judge dated 2541945 and set it aside in exercise of that jurisdiction and remanded the case for further enquiry.22.	Reasoning
The result therefore is that Appeal No. 12 of 1951 is allowed, as the interlocutory remand order of the High Court was one without jurisdiction and that being so, the subsequent proceedings taken in consequence of it, viz., the order of the Subordinate Judge restoring the application for execution to the extent of Rs. 92,000, the further order of the High Court on appeal restoring the execution case on terms, are null and void and have to be set aside and the order of the executing Court dated 2541945 restored.	Decision
We order accordingly.	Decision
Appeal No, 13 of 1951 is dismissed.23.	Decision
In the peculiar circumstances of this case we direct that the parties be left to bear their own costs throughout, that is, those incurred by them in the High Court in the proceedings which terminated with the remand order, the costs incurred in the subordinate Court after the remand order, and the costs thereafter incurred in the High Court and those incurred in this Court in these appeals.24.	Decision
Order accordingly.	None
