 Vaidialingam, J. 1.	None
This appeal, by special leave, is directed against the Award, dated June 5, 1971 of the Labour Court, Delhi, in I.C.I.D. No. 19 of 1968 holding that the Katibs are calligraphists as defined in the Wage Board Recommendations and that they are entitled to the rates of wages prescribed by the Central Government Notification dated October 27, 1967.	Issue
2.	None
In the petition for special leave the appellant had raised three main contentions (1) The Wage Board exceeding its jurisdiction in including Calligraphists in the definition of Working Journalists and hence its recommendation is of on effect and in consequence the Government Notification accepting the said recommendation is also void (2) The Katibs are not Working journalists as defined in S. 2 (f) of the Working Journalists (Conditions of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955 (Act 45 of 1955) as amended (hereinafter to be referred to as the Act) and (3) The finding of the Labour Court that the Katibs are Challigraphists as defined in the Wage Board Recommendations is erroneous.	Arguments of Petitioner
But this Court on September 8, 1971 granted special leave in respect of all questions raised in the special leave petition except the question as to whether the calligraphists were properly recommended to be working journalists by the Wage Board.	Reasoning
3.	None
Therefore, it will be seen that the appellant is not entitled to raise the first question in this appeal that the Wage Board exceeded its jurisdiction in including calligraphists in the definition of working journalists.	Reasoning
It further follows that the Notification of the Central Government accepting the recommendations of the Wage Board cannot also be challenged.	Reasoning
4.	None
The appellant is publishing Pratap a daily newspaper from Delhi in Urdu language.	Facts
Unlike English and Hindi, Urdu papers are printed with the help of Katibs and not with the assistance of compositors.	Facts
Under S. 9 of the Act, the Central Government constituted a Wage Board by notification dated November 12, 1963 for the purpose of fixing or revising the rates of wages in respect of working journalists in accordance with the provisions of the Act.	Facts
The Wage Board made its recommendations.	Facts
In Schedule I, Section 1 relating to newspapers, the Wage Board had enumerated various personnel.	Facts
In group 3, the SubEditor, Reporter, Correspondent, Newsphotographer, Artist, Calligraphist, Librarian or Index Assistant are referred to and their functions given.	Facts
We will have to refer later to the definition of the two expressions Artist and Calligraphist.	Facts
In paragraph 4.27 of the Report the Wage Board had recommended that the working journalists of different groups employed in different classes of newspapers and news agencies should be paid basic pay per mensem in accordance with the sales given therein.	Facts
The newspapers were divided into various classes and there is no controversy that the appellant belongs to class V.	Facts
The pay scales for the type of employees enumerated in group 3 and referred to earlier, working in a newspapers coming under class V was fixed in the scale of Rupees 175152503040030575.	Facts
The Central Government, by and large, accepted the recommendation of the Wage Board subject to certain minor modifications.	Facts
Accordingly the Central Government under S. 18 of the Act issued a notification No. 803883 dated October 27, 1967 directing that the recommendations of the Wage Board accepted by the Central Government have to be implemented from the dates mentioned therein.	Facts
The Katibs in the employ of the appellant claimed that they are Calligraphists as defined by the Wage Board in its recommendations and accepted by the Central Government and as such they are working journalists under the Act.	Facts
They claimed that they should receive the wages according to the scale as recommended by the Wage Board.	Facts
The appellant was not agreeable to accede to this demand on the ground that the Katibs are not Calligraphists and in consequence they are not working journalists and as such they are not entitled to the higher emoluments provided in the Wage Board Recommendations.	Facts
Finally, the parties agreed on April, 30, 1968 that the dispute whether the Katibs are working journalists or not, under the definition of Calligraphists as prescribed by the Wage Board will be jointly referred by the parties under S. 10 (2) of the Industrial Disputes Act.	Facts
On a joint application by both parties, the Lt. Governor, Delhi, by his order dated September 23, 1968, referred to the Labour Court, Delhi for adjudication the following dispute.	None
Whether the Katibs are working Journalists under the definition of Calligraphists as prescribed by the Wage Board and whether they are entitled to rates of wages as prescribed for Calligraphists under Government Notification No. 803883 dated the 27th October 1967 and if so, what directions are necessary in this respect?	Facts
Before the Labour Court the Katibs relied on the Wage Board Recommendations and claimed that they were Calligraphists, who had been included as Working Journalists.	None
Their case was that they satisfy the definition of a Calligraphist and as such they were entitled to higher pay scales recommended by the Wage Board and accepted by the Central Government.	Facts
5.	None
This claim was contested by the appellant on the ground that the Katibs were not Calligraphists as their work was only to write in a neat hand whatever was supplied to them by the SubEditors.	Facts
The nature of the duties of a Katib and Calligraphist was radically different and the former were not covered by the Wage Board Recommendations and the Central Government notification.	Facts
6.	None
The Labour Courts has recorded the following findings The Katibs working in the establishment of the appellant calligraph matters.	Facts
The counsel for the appellant herein conceded that the Katibs were calligraphing the matters but nevertheless they were not calligraphists as defined by the Wage Board.	Facts
The evidence, both oral and documentary established that the Katibs prepare the lay out, headings, shading and beautification etc.	Facts
and they are artists as defined by the Wage Board.	Facts
The Katibs make corrections in the drafts furnished to them by the Editor and substitute their own words and either compress or enlarge the matter, according to availability of space.	Facts
The corrections and substitutions made by the Katibs as disclosed by the evidence show that the corrections and substitutions were of such a substantial nature that they could be made only by a person who knew the language, the facts and had a grasp of the current affairs.	Facts
The Katibs therefore do journalistic work.	Facts
The Katibs satisfied the requirements of the definition of Calligraphist contained in the Wage Board Recommendations.	Facts
As Calligraphists have been included in the definition of Working Journalist and as Katibs are Cauligraphists, the latter are entitled to the rates of wages prescribed in the Wage Board Recommendations.	Facts
7.	None
Mr. V. S. Desai, learned counsel for the appellant has strenuously attacked the reasoning of the Labour Court that the Katibs are Calligraphists and as such entitled to the higher rates of pay.	Arguments of Petitioner
The counsel urged that in no sense can the katibs be considered to be an artist nor can he be considered to perform journalistic work.	Arguments of Petitioner
In order to come within the definition of working journalist under the Act, the principal avocation of the person concerned must be that of a journalist and he must have been employed as such in any newspapers establishment.	Arguments of Petitioner
This aspect, according to the learned counsel, has not at all been considered by the Labour Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The work of the Katibs was merely to write in neat hand whatever is supplied to them by the editorial staff.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Katibs do not satisfy the definition of Calligraphist under the Wage Board Recommendations.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Mr. M. K. Ramamurthi, learned counsel for the respondent, pointed out that when the Katibs, like the respondents, are admittedly in the exclusive employ of the appellant, the question of their principal avocation does not arise.	Arguments of Respondent
That question will arise only when employment in a newspaper establishment is not exclusive.	Arguments of Respondent
The expression employed as such in S. 2 (f) of the Act is not to be understood as employed as journalist.	Arguments of Respondent
But it only denotes the relationship of master and servant which admittedly exists in the present case.	Arguments of Respondent
The expression journalistic work or journalist has not been defined either in the Act or in the Wage Board Recommendations and it has to be understood in a technical sense having regard to the historical background of the newspaper industry.	Arguments of Respondent
The activity of being journalist will include being on the editorial staff of a newspaper as opposed to the press workers and managerial staff.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel further pointed out that the expression Calligraphist has been defined in the Wage Board Recommendations and on an appreciation of the evidence, the Labour Court has recorded findings on the material on record that the Katibs discharge various items of work to qualify them to come under the definition.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence the counsel urged that the Award of the Labour Court holding that Katibs are Calligraphists and as such working journalist is proper.	Arguments of Respondent
9.	None
It is now necessary to refer to the relevant provisions of the Act.	None
Section 2 (f) defines working journalist as follows (2) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires (f) working journalist means a person whose principal avocation is that of a journalist and who is employed as such in, or in relation to, any newspaper establishment, and includes an editor, a leaderwriter, news editor, subeditor, featurewriter, copytester, reporter, correspondent, cartoonist, newsphotographer and proofreader, but does not include any such person who  (i) is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity, or (ii) being employed in a supervisory capacity performs, either by the nature of the duties attached to his office or by reason of the powers vested in him, functions of a managerial nature.	Reasoning
Chapter II deals with the working journalist.	None
Section 8 gives power to the Central Government to fix or revise from time to time the rates of wages in respect of working journalists.	None
Section 9 deals with the procedure for such fixation or revision of rates of wages.	None
It contemplates the constitution by the Central Government of a Wage Board for the said purpose, consisting of the persons mentioned in the section.	None
Sections 10 and 11 deal with the procedure to be adopted by the Board as well as the latter making recommendations to the Central Government.	None
Section 12 gives power to the Central Government to enforce the recommendations of the Board either with or without modification.	None
Section 13 provides that on the coming into operation of an order issued by the Central Government under S. 12, every working journalist will be entitled to be paid by his employer wages at the rate which is to be in no case less than the rate of wages specified in the order.	None
It was under S. 9 that the Central Government constituted the Wage Board on November 12, 1963.	None
It was under S. 12 that the Central Government issued Notification dated October 10, 1967 substantially accepting the recommendations of the Wage Board and directing that the recommendations so accepted are to come into force with effect from the date referred to therein.	None
In Schedule I, section 1, relating to newspapers, the Wage Board has placed the working journalist under various groups.	None
Group 3, as mentioned earlier, enumerates various categories of employees.	None
It is only necessary to refer to the two categories mentioned therein, namely, Artist and Calligraphist.	None
They have been referred to as follows Artist is a person who prepares for publication drawing, layouts, maps graphs or other similar embellishment, illustrations of any kind or creative Art.	None
He may do some or all of these functions.	None
Calligraphist is an artist who performs journalistic work and also calligraphs matters.	None
We have already referred to the fact that the appellant establishment comes under class V and in respect of the person coming under group 3, paragraph 4.27 gives wages, scale and grade.	None
10.	None
Then the question is whether the Katibs are Calligraphists as defined above.	None
As per the definition a given above, to come within the definition of Calligraphist three conditions have to be satisfied by an employee (1) He must be an Artist (2) He should perform journalistic work and (3) He should also calligraph matters.	None
The definition of the expression artist has been given.	None
Therefore one of the conditions for being a Calligraphist is that the employee must be an Artist.	None
As the expression has been defined by the Wage Board, in our opinion, the requirements of that definition will have to be satisfied before a person can be characterised as an Artist.	None
If the evidence discloses that a person does some or all the functions enumerated in the definition of Artist then he must be considered to be an Artist as per the Wage Board definition.	None
11.	None
We will now consider whether the Katibs (a) are Artists (b) perform journalistic work and (c) also calligraph matters.	Reasoning
So far as calligraphing of matters is concerned, the Labour Court has referred to the evidence of M.Ws. 1, 2, and 5 and also to 13 witnesses, all Katibs, who gave evidence on the side of the Union.	None
They have all given evidence to the effect that after getting the matter from the editorial staff they write in a beautiful manner.	Reasoning
In fact, even the case of the appellant is that the Katibs write in a neat and beautiful hand whatever is given to them by the editorial staff.	Reasoning
The oral evidence, referred to above, as well as the documentary evidence Exs.	Reasoning
W. 15, W. 16 and W. 38 and various other exhibits of a similar nature clearly establish that the Katibs calligraph matters.	Reasoning
We do not propose to again refer to the above items of evidence, as we are in entire agreement with the Labour Courts appreciation, as well as its findings based upon that evidence that the Katibs calligraph matters.	Reasoning
In fact, it is also seen that the counsel for the appellant had conceded before the Labour Court that the Katibs calligraph matters.	Reasoning
But the contention appears to have been that they are neither artists nor do they perform journalistic work which are the two other essential conditions to be satisfied to come under the definition of Calligraphist.	Reasoning
That aspect will be dealt with by us later.	Reasoning
We are of the opinion that the evidence discussed by the Labour Court clearly shows that one requirement of the definition, namely that Katibs calligraph matters, is established.	Reasoning
12.	None
Then the question is whether the Katibs are Artists.	None
The Wage Board has clearly indicated as to who an Artist is, and that has been referred to by us earlier.	Reasoning
We cannot travel beyond the dictionary provided by the Wage Board itself.	Reasoning
So far as this aspect is concerned, here again, the Labour Court has referred to the various items of oral and documentary evidence which clearly establish that Katibs prepare for publication drawing, lay outs and other similar embellishments.	Reasoning
The witnesses have deposed to the nature of the material given to them as also the completed products, for which the Labour Court has come to the conclusion that the Katibs are Artists as defined in the Wage Board Recommendations.	Reasoning
As we are of the view that there has been a proper appreciation of the evidence by the Labour Court, we are in entire agreement with the conclusion arrived at by that Court in this regard.	Reasoning
13.	None
This takes us to the question whether the further requirement of the Katibs performing journalistic work is established on the evidence.	Reasoning
Neither the expression journalistic work nor journalist has been defined either in the Act or in the Wage Board Recommendations.	Reasoning
The history of the legislation leading upto the Act has been elaborately considered by this Court in Express Newspapers (Private) Ltd. v. Union of India, (1959)	Reasoning
SCR 12 (AIR 1958 SC 578 ).	Reasoning
The definition of working journalist in S. 2 (f) of the Act deals with three aspects (1) A person whose principal avocation is that of a journalist and who is employed as such in or in relation to any newspaper establishment, is a working journalist (2) In the expression working journalist is also included 11 categories of persons mentioned therein and (3) subcls.	Reasoning
(1) and (2) evclude persons mentioned therein from the definition of working journalist.	None
Normally, when the Wage Board Recommendation has included calligraphist as a Working Journalist and has also specified who is a Calligraphist, it should not be difficult to accept the contention of the respondent that they do journalistic work.	None
But Mr. V. S. Desai, learned counsel for the appellant, contended that before a person can be a working journalist, he must satisfy two conditions, namely, (1) He must be a person whose principal avocation is that of a journalist and (2) He must employed as such or in relation to any establishment as specified in the definition.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is no doubt true that this Court in The Management of Express Newspapers Ltd. v. B. Somayajulu, (1964) 3 SCR 100 (AIR 1964 SC 279 ) when dealing with the definition of a working journalist contained in S. 2 (b) of Act I of 1955, which is substantially similar to S. 2 (f) of the Act, has laid down the above two requirements.	Reasoning
In the said decision this Court was considering whether a person who claimed to be parttime correspondent in the moffusil area was a working journalist under the inclusive part of the definition in S. 2 (b) of Act I of 1955.	Reasoning
At the time when this decision was given there was no definition of Calligraphist as now given by the Wage Board nor was that category in the inclusive part in S. 2 (f).	Reasoning
The wage Boards definition merely requires that he should be an Artist who performs journalistic work and also calligraphs matters.	Reasoning
There is no requirement in this definition that he should be a journalist whose principal avocation is that of a journalist.	Reasoning
It is matter of considerable doubt whether one of the conditions to be satisfied as laid down by this Court that he must be a person whose principal avocation is that of a journalist when interpreting the inclusive part of the definition as contained in S. 2 (f) of the Act will still apply.	Reasoning
If Mr. Desais contention is to be accepted, S. 2 (f) of the Act omitting the matters not relevant for our purpose will have to be read as follows Working journalist means a person whose principal avocation is that of a journalist and who is employed as such in, or in relation to, any newspaper establishment and includes a calligraphist who is an artist who performs journalistic work and also calligraphs matters.	Reasoning
It needs no explanation to say that the above reading will not be a very happy one.	Reasoning
When once the Wage Board has given the definition of a Calligraphist and included persons coming under that category in the definition of a working journalist the only test to be applied will be whether the person concerned satisfies the requirements of the definition given by the Wage Board.	Reasoning
We have already referred to the fact that it is no longer open to the appellant to question the jurisdiction of the Wage Board when it included Calligraphists in the definition of Working Journalist.	Reasoning
Once the jurisdiction of the Wage Board is conceded the approach to be made is only to find out whether a person who claims to be a calligraphist satisfies the definition as given by the Wage Board.	Reasoning
No doubt the definition of calligraphist will have to be read along with the definition of Artist given by the Wage Board.	Reasoning
We have already held that the Labour Courts finding that Katibs are artists as defined by the Wage Board is correct.	None
14.	None
However, even applying the test, as contended for by Mr. Desai in the instant case, as we will presently show, that requirement is also satisfied.	None
It should be noted that in the above decision, this Court clearly defines avocation as ones calling or profession.	None
It has been further laid down therein that when a journalist who is in the full time employment, there is no difficulty in holding what his principal avocation is.	None
Again dealing with the requirement of being employed as such which occurs also in Section 2 (f) of the Act, it is laid down that the requirement of employment is necessary to create a relationship of employer and employee between the journalist and the newspaper establishment.	None
It has been further held that the employment in the context necessarily postulates exclusive employment, as a working journalist cannot serve two employers.	None
But, later on, this Court in the same decision had held that on a fair construction of S. 2 (b) of Act I of 1955 corresponding to S. 2 (f) of the Act.	None
It is possible to hold that even a part time employee will satisfy the test of the definition.	None
But the point to be noted is that it is laid down that the definition will be satisfied if the journalist is in exclusive employ of a newspaper establishment, in which case his principal avocation will be that of a journalist and he can be considered to be employed as such.	None
In the case before us there is no controversy that the Katibs are full time employees and there is the relationship of master and servant.	None
If so, it follows that the tests laid down by this Court, in the decision referred to above, are satisfied.	Reasoning
15.	None
Then the question is whether they perform journalist work.	Reasoning
As per the definition of Calligraphist given by the Wage Board it is only necessary that apart from the other functions mentioned therein, the person concerned must perform journalistic work.	Reasoning
In this connection Mr. V. S. Desai referred us to the evidence of the various Katibs on the side of the Union to effect that their educational qualification does not go beyond the IXth class.	Reasoning
According to him, to be a journalist requires a fairly high degree of education.	Reasoning
Normally, it would be very desirable that they have a very high degree of education but the qualification necessary depends upon the particular type of journalistic work that the employee is called upon to do.	Reasoning
In this case M. W. 5, is the editor of the appellant newspaper for about 20 years.	Reasoning
He writes editorials.	Reasoning
When he gave evidence he was the Chief Editor of the newspaper.	Reasoning
Even according to him he has no high qualification in Urdu and he has read Urdu upto VI or VII class.	Reasoning
We have referred to this aspect only to show that even such a responsible officer as the Chief Editor of the appellant has only such qualifications.	Reasoning
That shows that even though the Katibs have no high qualification they have got knowledge of Urdu in which language the paper is being published.	Reasoning
It is significant to note that in group 3, the Wage Board has included a Calligraphist as a Working Journalist along with certain other categories who are admittedly working journalists by virtue of the inclusive definition in S. 2 (f) of the Act.	None
Therefore, it is reasonable to infer that a person who does the items of work at least analogous to the categories of persons who come within the definition under S. 2 (f) can be considered to be doing journalistic work.	Reasoning
16.	None
The evidence in this case which has been analysed and discussed by the Labour Court establishes that Katibs make corrections in the drafts furnished to them by the Editor.	Reasoning
They even sometimes substitute words, compress and enlarge the matters according to availability of space and some times Edit.	Reasoning
This type of work, in our opinion, can certainly be characterised as performance of journalistic work.	Reasoning
In particular, we will only refer to the evidence of M. Ws. 3 and 11.	Reasoning
W. W. 3 has spoken to the fact that he corrects the spellings and idioms and also substitutes words and increases or decreases matter according to availability of space.	Reasoning
He has referred to the original matter received by him as also the final material produced by him.	Reasoning
He has spoken to the fact that he had deleted certain facts contained in the matter originally received by him and compressed the same in the new material as no space was available.	Reasoning
He has also spoken to having added few lines of his own.	Reasoning
He has spoken with reference to the exhibits.	Reasoning
When he has referred in detail to the original particulars received from the editorial staff and to the nature of the alterations made by him, there has been no suggestion in crossexamination on the side of the appellant that his statements are not borne out by the records.	Reasoning
To a similar effect is the evidence of M. W. 11 who has also spoken to the fact that he has either reduced the material on his own responsibility or has to put the matter in small space or increased the matter by making certain additions of his own.	Reasoning
Even in respect of certain technical aspects relating to certain matters, the witnesses have deposed to the fact that as there were very serious mistakes in the matters sent to them, they of their own volition corrected as they are well acquainted with the subject with which they were dealing with.	Reasoning
In our opinion, all this evidence clearly establishes that in the course of their duties the Katibs perform journalistic work.	Reasoning
17.	None
From the discussion contained above, it follows that the Katibs are Artists who perform journalistic work and who also calligraph matters.	Reasoning
Accordingly, they satisfy the definition of Calligraphist as per the Wage Board Recommendations and they are working journalists under Section 2 (f) of the Act.	Reasoning
It follows that the Labour Court was right in holding that they are entitled to the higher scale of wages recommended by the Wage Board for Calligraphists and accepted by the Central Government.	Reasoning
18.	None
In the result, the Award of the Labour Court is confirmed and this appeal dismissed with costs.	Decision
19.	None
It is represented by the appellants counsel that 70 of the increased rate has been already paid.	Decision
The appellant to pay the balance amount within 3 months from today in accordance with the directions already given regarding interest.	Decision
20.	None
Appeal dismissed with costs.	Decision
