 S. Bachawat, J.1.	None
This appeal is directed against a judgment of a single Judge of the Madhya Pradesh High Court setting aside the election of the appellant to the Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly from the Sagar City Constituency.2.	Issue
At the last general election to the Legislative Assembly from the Sagar City Constituency there were six contesting candidates.	Facts
The appellant, the Congress candidate, secured 17, 068 votes, respondent No. 1, the P.S.P. candidate secured 12, 193 votes, four other candidates secured much lesser number of votes.	Facts
The appellant was declared elected.	Facts
Respondent No. 1 field an election petition and alleged a number of corrupt practices on the part of the appellant.	Facts
The High Court fund that the corrupt practice under Section 123(4) was proved and set aside the election.	Facts
The High Court found that the bother charges were not proved.3.	Facts
The charges against the appellant under Section 123(4) is that with consent statements of facts which were false and which the appellant did not believe to be true in relation to the personal character or conduct of respondent No. 2 calculated to prejudice the prospects of his election were published in Hindi in the issues of New Rocket Times, dated the 6th, 9th, 10th, 13th, 18th and 19th February, 1967 (Exs.	Facts
P6, P5, P4, P3, P2, and P1 respectively) and the issues of Agami Kal, dated the 4th, 19th and 20th February (Exs. P7, P9 and P10 respectively).	Facts
The learned Judge held that the publications were made with the appellants consent and that the papers were distributed this instance on the eve of the election.	Facts
We are unable to agree with this finding.4.	None
In the petition the charge was that both the papers were financed by the appellant and that the editors of New Rocket Times an Agami Kal were his benamidars.	None
In his examinationinchief, respondent No. 1 said that PW 43 Bakar Mia, told him that the entire expenses of the publication of the New Rocket Times were borne by the appellant.	None
PW 36 Ghanshyam Das, the editor of the paper Denik Rahi said that a press conference called by the appellant on January 20, 1967 at the residence of Sri Krishna Selot and attended by PW 36, PW 35 Madansingh, editor of Sagar Times, RW 23 Jai Narain, editor of Agami Kal and CW 1, Badal Singh, editor of New Rocket Times, the appellant stated that RW 33 and CW 1 had agreed to publish in their papers all his advertisements as also all articles to be supplied by RW 34 Laxminarayan Trunkwala for the entire election at a settled remuneration of Rs. 1, 000/ each and that the appellant had also agreed to purchase 1, 000 copies of each of the papers.	None
The story appears to us to be false.	None
If the bargains had already been made with RW 23 and CW 1 it was not necessary to call them at the conference.	Reasoning
Nor was it necessary to make a public announcement of the bargain at a press conference.	Reasoning
The charge that such an agreement was made with the editors of the two papers was not made in the petition and is an afterthought.	None
PW 36 also said that on January 20, the appellant agreed to pay him Rs. 1, 000/ for issuing advertisements in his paper as remuneration and accordingly he published advertisements in his paper from January 24 to February 16, that a week after the agreement the appellant sent Rs. 300/ to Sri Krishna Selot through RW 11 Sunder Lal and desired that the money be paid to him (PW 36), but that he refused to accept the money, and insisted on full payment.	None
We do not believe this story.	None
Had there been such a dispute in the last week of January PW 34 would not have continued to publish the advertisements till February 16.	Reasoning
PW 36 did not make any demand on the appellant in writing for Rs. 1, 000/ nor file any suit against him.	Reasoning
RW 11 denied that he brought Rs. 300/ from the appellant.	Reasoning
PW 35 did not support PW 36 and did not speak of any admission made by the appellant at the press conference with regard to his alleged bargains with the New Rocket Times and the Agami Kal.	Reasoning
PW 43 Bakar Mia, the manager of Nisi Printing Press proved that RW 34 gave the manuscripts for the articles, but RW 34 denied that he wrote them at the appellants request.	Reasoning
PW 43 said that the appellants servants took away all the copies of the papers in the appellants car.	Reasoning
But RW 32 Narendranath Purohit, the owner of the Nisi Printing Press denied that the appellants car or jeep ever came to collect the copies.	Reasoning
We do not believe PW 43.	Reasoning
There is evidence to show that only 500 copies of Agami Kal used to be printed.	Reasoning
This fact proved by RW 32 and CW 1 belies the story of PW 36 that the editors of the two papers agreed to supply 1, 000 copies to the appellant.	Reasoning
The learned Judge held against the appellant mainly on the strength of the evidence of Ghanshyam Das.	Reasoning
As we do not accept his testimony there is no direct evidence to show that the publications were made at the appellants instance.5.	Reasoning
The circumstantial evidence relied on by respondent No. 1 does not conclusively establish that the publications were with the appellants consent.	Reasoning
The appellant read the papers but his omission to raise any objection does not establish his consent.	Reasoning
His photos and appeals were published in the New Rocket Times and Agami Kal but they were also published in other papers.	Reasoning
The financial position of the two papers were shaky, and their publication shot up during the elections but the editors of these mushroom papers might have hit upon the plan of making money by publishing sensational articles on the eve of the election.6.	Reasoning
The evidence as to the distribution of the papers at the appellants instance is not convincing.	Reasoning
Out of the 13 distributors named in the petition respondent No. 2 called only PW 23, PW 24, and PW 30.	Reasoning
They do not identify the papers distributed by them.	Reasoning
We do not accept the statement of PW 24, and PW 30 that they got Rs. 50/ each as remuneration from the appellant.	Reasoning
PW 30 said that the appellant paid him Rs. 50/ at the rate of Rs. 5/ per day in the presence of his brother RW 25 Ratiram, but RW 25 denied that the appellant settled PW 30s remuneration in his presence.	None
PW 6 said that the papers were distributed from the 4th or 5th of February, but actually the papers were published from the 9th February.	None
PW 20 said that he got from the appellant Rs. 100/ as remuneration for distributing the papers and that he used to distribute the papers through RW 21 Babu Lal and another person, but RW 21 said that he did not know PW 20 and that he never received any copy of the papers for distribution.	None
We do not believe PW 20.	None
PW 8 said that he got a copy of the New Rocket Times from RW 30 Panna Lal Patel, but this was denied by RW 30.	Reasoning
PW 29 and PW 31 said that one Ram Charan used to distribute the papers but Ram Charan was not examined.	Reasoning
CW 1 and RW 23 denied that the papers were distributed free of cost.	Reasoning
We do not accept the story that the papers used to be distributed free of cost at the appellants instance.7.	Reasoning
It is not established that the issue of the New Rocket Times and the Agami Kal were distributed with the appellants consent.	Reasoning
In view of this conclusion, it follows that the appellant was not guilty of any corrupt practice under Section 123(4).	Reasoning
There is force in the appellants contention that the statements in the publications were not in relation to the personal character or conduct or respondent No. 1.	Reasoning
But we do not find it necessary to express any opinion on this question.8.	None
The learned Judge held against respondent No. 2 on all the other charges.	None
His has pressed before us the charge under issues 7, 28, 31(b) and 34.	None
Issue No. 7 relates to payment of Rs. 200/ as bribe to PW 16 Bashir Mohammad, the Secretary of the Gopalganj Trust Committee.	None
He said that on February 19, the appellant gave him donation of Rs.	None
200/ in the present of PW 41 and that he spoke of this donation to PW 19.	None
He was corroborated by PW 41 and PW 19.	None
In support of his statement PW 16 proved entries in his cash book, Ex.	None
P. 79.	None
Exhibit P. 79 shows a credit of Rs. 500/ as donation from the appellant on February 19, and a debit entry of Rs.	None
200/ through Hazi Ahmad for fencing of iron bars for Kabristan on the same day.	None
There is force in the appellants contention that a convenient cross entry was made on the same date so that the cash balance carried forward in the books might not be disturbed.	None
PW 16 said that he sent the accounts for the year ending March 31, 1967 to the Waqf committee in the month of April 1967.	Reasoning
But RW 26 Nazir Ahmed, the Secretary of the Madhya Pradesh Waqf Board said that no such account was receive and none was to be found in his office.	Reasoning
In agreement with the learned trial Judge we are unable to accept the testimony of PW 16 and the supporting witnesses.9. Issue No. 28 relates to the charge that the appellant used the national flag for furthering his election prospects by publishing a replica of the flag with his appeal in the New Rocket Times.	Issue
RW 32, proved that the printed a replica of the flag in the paper at his own instance for doing propaganda work.	None
There is no reliable evidence to show that he did so at the appellants instance.	Reasoning
The learned Judge rightly repelled this charge.10.	None
Issue No. 31(b) relates to the publication of a statement of the withdrawal of the candidature of PW 10 Manmohan Patel in the Sagar Mitra one day before the election in Ex.	Issue
P69 by one Nanhuram Vyas.	None
PW 10 said that Nanhuram Vyas was a paid servant of the appellant.	None
Nanhuram was not examined by respondent No. 1.	Reasoning
The petition did not allege that the appellant got the statement published through his gent Nanhuram.	Reasoning
In agreement with the learned Judge we hold that it is not established that the statement was published at the appellants instance.11.	Reasoning
Issue No. 34 relates to the charge that the appellant incurred or authorised expenditure in contention of Section 77.	Issue
It is said that the appellant did not include several items of expenses in his return of election expenses.	None
Item (i) relates to the purchase of congress flags worth Rs. 1, 227.05 P. We are concerned only with the expenses incurred or authorised in connection with the election after January 13, 1967 which was the date of publication of the notification calling the election.	None
The cash memos for the period before January 13, 1967 are not relevant and may be left out of account.	None
With regard to the cash memos Exs. P120, P121 and P122, RW 7, RW 11 and RW 20 have given cogent and convincing explanation as go how they came to purchase the flags for other persons.	None
Even if the explanation given by RW 39, with regard to Ex.	None
P. 129 be rejected there is no reliable evidence that the expenses covered by the cash memos were incurred or authorised by the appellant.	None
With regard to items (iii) and (iv) the learned Judge held that the appellant omitted to mention in his return Rs. 2, 000/ paid by him to the editors of New Rocket Times and Agami Kal.	None
We are unable to agree with this finding.	None
As already stated respondent No. 1 failed to prove that the appellant paid any money to the editors of the two papers.	Reasoning
Item No. (xiii) relates to the item of 2, 000	Reasoning
Gandhi caps and sunshades.	Reasoning
This charge is not prove.	Reasoning
The appellant said that he spent Rs.	None
225/ only for the Gandhi caps and that only 750 Gandhi caps at the cost of Rs.	None
225/.	Reasoning
He was not crossexamined.	None
It is not established that the appellant obtained more than 750 caps.	None
RW 15 proved that the sunshades were supplied by him for distribution free of cost.	Reasoning
With regard to item (xv) the learned Judge held that the appellant paid Rs. 100/ to PW 20, and Rs. 50/ each to PW 24 and PW 30.	Reasoning
As already stated, we do not believe PW 20, PW 24, PW 30.	Reasoning
We set aside the finding of the learned Judge that the appellant paid Rs. 200/ to them.	None
Item (xvii) relates to an expenditure of Rs. 4, 000/ in respect of portraits fitted on motor vehicles with an automatic device.	None
The petition charged that two stationwagons were used in the election.	None
But in his deposition respondent No. 1 spoke of only one stationwagon.	None
PW 6, PW 8, PW 11 and PW 45 spoke of two stationwagons, but we do not believe them.	None
RW 6 Kanchan Lal Dhruv proved that he sent the stationwagon from Indore free of charge.	None
He is corroborated by the appellant and RW 13.	Reasoning
The learned Judge rightly held that the charge under item (xvii) was not proved.	Reasoning
Item (xviii) relates to an expenditure of Rs. 1, 000/ for constructing a platform for a meeting.	Reasoning
The charge is not proved.	Reasoning
There is convincing evidence to show that the expensed for the platform was met by the District Congress Committee.	Reasoning
The relevant receipt is Ex. P142.	None
Item (xxi) relates to the payment of Rs. 1, 400/ as printing charges to the Patel Printing Press.	Reasoning
The charge is not established.	Reasoning
We accept the statement of RW 32 that the Nagar Congress Committee placed the order and paid for the printing.	Reasoning
Item (xxii) relates to payment of Rs. 2, 200/ to Adarsh Press.	Reasoning
Respondent No. 1 examined PW 37, PW 38, PW 21 and PW 34 to prove the charge.	Reasoning
PW 37, the manager of the press tried to prove the bill Ex.	Reasoning
P89 and the work orders Exs.	None
P90, P91 and P92.	None
But PW 38, the Printer, stated that entries in Ex.	None
P92 were false entries written by him at the instance of PW 37.	None
PW 21 said that he personally got Rs. 2, 850/ for the bill from the appellant, but in the petition the charge was that the appellant spent only Rs. 2, 200/.	Reasoning
The evidence of PW 34 does not carry the matter any further.	Reasoning
The entries in Exs. P90, P91 and P92 are not reliable and cannot be acted upon.	None
The charge under item no.	Reasoning
(xxiii) is not proved.	Reasoning
The learned Judge has adequately dealt with the charges with regard to items (vi), (vii), (xvi), (xx) and has rightly rejected them for cogent reasons.	Reasoning
The charges with regard to the other item were not pressed.12.	Reasoning
The learned Judge held that the appellant incurred an expense of Rs.	None
200/ under item (v) and Rs.	None
230/ under items (xix) and (xxiii) and that it was not included in the return of election expenses.	None
We agree with the finding.13.	None
Counsel for respondent No. 1 contends that as the appellant did not keep correct account under Section 77(1) and as his return of election expenses is false in material particulars the appellant committed the corrupt practice under Section 123(6).	Arguments of Respondent
We are unable to accept this contention.14.	None
Section 123(6) lays down that the incurring or authorizing of expenditure in contravention of Section 77 is a corrupt practice.	None
Every contravention of Section 77 dos not fall within Section 123(6).	None
Section 77 consists of three parts.	None
Section 77, subsection (1) requires the candidate to keep a separate and correct account of all election expenses incurred or authorised by him within certain dates.	None
Section 77, subsection (2) provides that the account shall contain such particulars as may be prescribed.	None
Section 77, subsection (3) requires that the total of the said expenditure shall not exceed the prescribed amount.	None
Section 123(6) is related to Section 73(3).	None
If the candidate incurs or authorises expenditure in excess of the prescribed amount in contravention of Section 77(3) he commits corrupt practice under Section 123(6).	None
The contravention of Section 77, subsections (1) and (2) or the failure to maintain correct accounts with the prescribed particulars does not fall within Section 123(6).	None
See Sri Krishna v. Sat Narain.	None
The same opinion has been expressed in several decisions of the High Courts, see Savitri Devi v. Prabhawati Misra N. L. Verma v. Muni Lal Narasimhan v. Natesa and the cases referred to therein.15.	None
Section 124(4) as it stood before its amendment by Act XXVII of 1956 provided that the making of any return which was false in material particulars was a minor corrupt practice.	Reasoning
That provision has now been deleted and the submission of an incorrect return of expenses is no longer a corrupt practice.16.	None
In his return of expenses the appellant stated that he spent Rs. 4, 145.	Arguments of Petitioner
04P. We have found that he spent the additional sum of Rs.	None
430/. He thus spent in all Rs. 4, 575.04P. The authorised limit of expenses was Rs. 7, 000/.	None
It follows that the appellant did not incur or authorise expenditure in contravention of Section 77, and the case does not fall within Section 123(6).	None
We hold that there is no ground for setting aside the appellants election, and the petition filed by respondent No. 1 must be dismissed.17.	Reasoning
While making the order under Section 98(b)	None
the learned Judge passed an order under Section 99 declaring that the appellant as also Jainarain Dube, Laxminarain Trunkwala and Badal Singh were guilty of the corrupt practice under Section 123(4).	None
The present appeal has been filed by the appellant against the orders under Sections 98(b) and 99.	None
Counsel for the respondent contended that the appeal was not maintainable as Jainarain Dube, Laxminarain Trunkwala and Badal Singh were not impleaded as respondents.	None
We find no merit in this contention.	None
The appellant as a party aggrieved by the order against him under Sections 98 and 99 is entitled to file the appeal under Section 116A.	Reasoning
He is the only person aggrieved by the order under Section 98 and he alone can maintain the appeal against that order.	None
As the person aggrieve by the order under Section 99 he is also entitled to maintain an appeal against it.	Reasoning
The other person against whom the order under Section 99 was made are not necessary parties to the appeal.18.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeal is allowed, the orders of the High Court under Sections 98(b) and 99 are set aside and the election petition is dismissed.	Decision
Respondent No. 1 will pay to the appellate the costs in this Court and in the High Court.	Decision
