 Uday Umesh Lalit, J. These appeals by Special Leave challenge the common judgment and order dated 12.10.2015 passed by the High Court(The High Court of Judicature at Bombay, Nagpur Bench, Nagpur.)	Issue
in Criminal Appeal No.321 of 2015 and Criminal Confirmation Case No.1 of 2015 affirming the judgment and order dated 14.08.2015 passed by the Trial Court(The	Issue
Additional Sessions Judge, Yavatmal) in Special Case (POCSO Act(The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.) )	Issue
No.11 of 2013 and confirming the Death Sentence awarded to the Appellant on two counts i.e. under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC, for short) and under Section 376A of IPC.	Issue
The victim in the present case was a girl of two and half years of age and the First Information Report was lodged at 09.25 p.m. on 11.02.2013 by her father with Parwa Police Station, Yavatmal as under By coming to the Police Station, I lodge an oral report that since one year I am residing with my family at Zatala.	Facts
I have two daughters and one son.	Facts
The victim, aged 2 years is my daughter No.2.	Facts
I reside in the neighbourhood of my fatherinlaw.	Facts
This day 11.02.13, as there was a programme of Mahaprasad in Duttatraya Temple in the village I had gone there for taking meals at about 7.00 p.m.	Facts
After taking meals I returned home at about 7.30 p.m. At that time I did not see my daughter Miss XXX (The identity of the victim is not being disclosed) at home.	Facts
Therefore, I asked my fatherinlaw as to where was my daughter.	Facts
On it, he told me, Shatrughna Baban Meshram, aged 21 years, resident of Zatala has taken away your daughter XXX(The identity of the victim is not being disclosed) from me saying that he would reach her to you.	Facts
But Shatrughna did not bring my daughter to me.	Facts
So I searched my daughter in the village.	Facts
I saw my daughter XXX(The identity of the victim is not being disclosed) and Shatrughna Meshram lying in the new, under construction, building of Anganwadi.	Facts
There was no pant on the person of my daughter.	Facts
It was lying beside.	Facts
Her face was bitten and private parts were swollen.	Facts
I came out with my daughter.	Facts
In the meantime, Baban Sambhaji Meshram, aged 50 years also came there.	Facts
He took Shatrughna to his house.	Facts
I along with fatherinlaw and Vitthal Ghodam took my daughter in an auto from the village to Dr. Jaffar Siddiqui from Kurli.	Facts
The doctor examined her and declared her dead.	Facts
So we returned home.	Facts
Shatrughna Meshram took my daughter XXX(The identity of the victim is not being disclosed) in the building of Anganwadi, committed rape on her inhumanly in solitude, bit her on face and lips and committed her murder.	Facts
As stated in the FIR, the victim was taken to PW6 Dr. Md. Jaffar Siddiqui for medical attention but she was already dead and there were marks of bites on her body.	Facts
After registration of crime, the inquest (Exh.15) was conducted which recorded, Black and bluish coloured (contusion) marks are visible on both the cheeks and an injury is visible on the left cheek.	Facts
Similarly, both the lips are bitten.	Facts
An injury measuring 2 Cms.	Facts
X 3 Cms.	Facts
X 1 Cms.	Facts
is visible on the chin.	Facts
It also recorded that there were bite marks on the chest and stomach of the victim apart from signs of forcible sexual assault.	Facts
Soon after the registration of crime, PW13 A.P.I. Pankaj Vanjari (Police Station Incharge) caused arrest of the Appellant vide Exh.23 and conducted spot panchnama.	Facts
At the spot, full pant of the victim, pieces of flesh and chappals of an adult male were found.	Facts
The Appellant was taken to PW7 Dr. Ulhas Digambar Lingawar for medical examination who found that There was injury of abrasion on tip of the glans penis.	Facts
The injury size was 5mm X 3mm.	Facts
That injury was caused within 24 hours.	Facts
The accused was found capable for sexual intercourse.	Facts
In response to queries by the Investigating Officer said witness had stated in his opinion Exh 46	Facts
Yes, sign of sexual intercourse within 24 Hrs., was present.	Facts
Yes, injury mentioned in certificate can be possible, due to sexual intercourse.	Facts
The Post Mortem on the body of the victim was conducted on 12.02.2013 by a Board of five medical professionals and the Report (Exh. 53) noted Evidence of perineal tear with merging of vaginal and anal orifice, details mentioned under column No.17 21.	Facts
Dried blood and faecal stains over genital and perineal region.	Facts
Following injuries were found on the person of the victim  Multiple abrasions over right zygomatic region of sizes ranging from 0.5 cm x 0.5 cm.	Facts
to 0.3 cm x 0.2 cm, reddish.	Facts
Abrasion over left upper eyelid of size 0.5 cm x 0.5 cm, reddish.	Facts
Abrasion over right cheek of size 4 cm x 4 cm, reddish.	Facts
Abrasion over left cheek of size 8.5 cm x 7 cm, reddish.	Facts
Evidence of missing both upper and lower lips exposing labial fat with clean cut margins seen periorally without blood infiltration (post mortem in nature).	Facts
Lacerated wound over chin, midline of size 3 cm x 3 cm muscle deep with tissue missing, margins irregular and blood infiltrated, reddish.	Facts
Bite mark over and around right nipple over a region of size 5 cm x 5 cm, margins contused, reddish.	Facts
Bite mark over and around left nipple over a region of size 3 cm x 3 cm, margins contused, reddish.	Facts
9 Bite mark over abdomen, 1 cm right at the level of umbilicus over a region of size 4 cm x 3.5 cm, margins contused, reddish.	Facts
Bite mark over abdomen in the midline, 5 cm below the umbilicus, over a region of size 3 cm x 3 cm, margins contused, reddish.	Facts
Bite mark over public region in the midline, 9cm below umbilicus, over a region of size 4 cm x 3.5 cm, margins contused, reddish.	Facts
Bite mark over lateral aspect of right shoulder, over a region of size 5 cm x 3 cm, margins contused, reddish.	Facts
Bite mark over right buttock, over a region of size 3 cm x 3 cm, margins contused, reddish.	Facts
Bite mark over right buttock, over a region of size 3 cm x 3 cm, margins contused, reddish, separated from injury No.13 by 1.5 cm.	Facts
Bite mark over right buttock, over a region of size 3 cm x 2.5 cm, margins contused, reddish separated from injury No.14 by 1 cm.	Facts
Bite mark over left buttock, over a region of size 3.7 cm x 3 cm, margins contused, reddish.	Facts
Multiple lacerations over vaginal and anal region merging vaginal and anal orifice (perineal tear at 3, 6 and 9 Oclock positions), margins irregular, blood infiltrated, reddish.	Facts
Abrasion over left knee joint region, on anterior aspect, of size 1 cm x 0.5 cm, reddish.	Facts
Note Injuries No.1, 2, 3, 4 18 are caused by hard and rough surface.	Facts
Injury No.5 is caused by sharp edged object.	Facts
Injury No.6 is caused by nibbling by teeth (nibbling by bite).	Facts
Injury No.7 to 16 are caused by human bite.	Facts
Injury No.17 is caused by forceful sexual assault.	Facts
Under the heading Internal Injuries the corresponding observations in Column No.21 were Evidence of tear in the posterior vaginal wall with merging of vaginal and anal canal (perineal tear).	Facts
Surface ragged, margins irregular, blood infiltrated and reddish, extending and tearing (perforating) the rectum, corresponding to injury No.17 under column no.17.	Facts
On the effect of the injuries and the cause of death, the Report stated  Chart The clothes of the victim as well as that of the Appellant were sent for chemical analysis and the Report (Exh.69) was as under Description of Parcel s  Six sealed parcels, seals intact and as per copy sent.	Facts
Description of articles contained in Parcels Jersey Wrapped in paper labelled A1 Full Pant Wrapped in paper labelled B1 Full Shirt Wrapped in paper labelled B2 Knicker Wrapped in paper labelled B3 Full Pant (Small) Wrapped in paper labelled C1 Earth Wrapped in paper labelled C2 RESULTS OF ANALYSIS.  	None
Exhibit No.1 has few blood stains ranging from 0.1 to 4 cm in diameter on upper portion.  	Facts
Exhibit 2 has moderate number of blood stains, ranging from 0.1 to 2 cm in diameter mostly on front portion.  	Facts
Exhibit No.5 has moderate number of blood stains, ranging from 0.1 to 2 cm in diameter on middle and lower portion.  	Facts
No blood is detected on exhibits No.3,4 and 6.  	None
No semen is detected on exhibits No. 1, 2 3, 4 and 5.  	None
Blood detected on exhibits No.1, 2 and 5 is human.	None
Exhibits 1 and 5 referred to in the Report were clothes of the victim while Exhibits 2, 3 and 4 were that of the Appellant.	None
7.1	None
The relevant material including swabs taken from the body of the victim, the clothes and blood samples were subjected to D.N.A. analysis and the Report (Exh.54) stated Opinion 1)	None
The DNA profiles obtained from blood detected on ex.1 Jersey of deceased, ex.2 Full pant of accused, ex.5 full pant of deceased in Bn677/13, ex.2 Vaginal swab, ex.3 Vaginal smear slide, ex.4 Cervical swab, ex.5 Cervical smear slide, ex.6 Anal swab, ex.7 Anal smear slide, ex.8 Skin and tissue, ex.12 Swab from bite site in Bn678/13 are identical and from one and the same source of female origin and matched with the maternal and paternal alleles present in ex.9 Blood of deceased xxx in Bn678/13.	Facts
The Appellant was tried by the Trial Court in Special Case (POCSO Act) No.11 of 2013 for having committed offences punishable under Sections 376(1)(2)(f)(m), 376A, 302 of IPC and under Section 6 of the POCSO Act.	Facts
The Prosecution examined 13 witnesses and produced the relevant material in support of its case.	None
8.1 PW1, the father of the victim proved the First Information Report and also stated about the examination of the victim by PW6 Dr. Md. Jafar.	Facts
PW2, the grandfather of the victim narrated how the Appellant had taken the victim along with him.	Facts
It was stated He told me that father of the victim had come from work and he told him to bring the victim.	Facts
I told him that the victims father was yet to come and told him not to take the victim with him.	Facts
But he did not listen me and took away the victim.	Facts
Thereafter myself and my wife went to the house of complainant and asked him whether the victim was brought to him by accused and he told me that the victim was not brought to him.	Facts
Therefore myself, complainant and Shrawan took search of the victim.	Facts
We went towards water tank.	Facts
One Vikas Masram on inquiry told that he saw the accused with the victim going towards Anganwadi.	Facts
Therefore, we went towards Anganwadi.	Facts
At that time the construction of Anganwadi was incomplete and we saw that the victim and accused both were lying in the premises of Anganwadi.	Facts
Jins pant of the victim was lying aside and T Shirt was on her person.	Facts
We saw that she had sustained bite wounds on her lips, chicks, chest and hips.	Facts
There was bleeding from her private part.	None
8.2 PW6 Dr. Md. Jaffar stated that when the victim was brought before him, she was already dead and had found wounds and bites on her body.	Facts
PW7 Dr. Ulhas Digambar Lingawar, deposed about medical examination of the Appellant and opinion Exh.46.	None
8.3 PW10 Dr. Sachin Janbaji Gadge, Assistant Professor, Department of Forensic Medicine, Vasantrao Naik Government Medical College, Yavatmal proved the Post Mortem Report and stated about injury No.5 as under  Injury No.5 can be caused by sharp edged teeth.	None
No fracture on external examination or palpation.	Facts
All injuries are antemortem and fresh.	Facts
Except, injury No.5 under column No.17 (postmortem).	None
The nature of injury No.17 and the steps taken after the post mortem were indicated thus Injury No.17 under column No.17 with its corresponding internal injury mentioned under column No.21 with its consequences is sufficient to cause death in ordinary course of nature.	Facts
Accordingly, the viscera was preserved.	Facts
Vaginal, cervical and anal swabs kept for semen analysis.	Facts
Swabs from bite site and control site kept for detection of saliva and comparison.	Facts
Blood soaked gauzed piece kept for D.N.A. Analysis and comparison.	Facts
Skin and tissue kept for D.N.A. Analysis.	Facts
Hairs kept for comparison, if any.	Facts
Blood soaked gauzed piece kept for blood group.	Facts
Nail clippings kept for detection of foreign blood group.	Facts
Skin and tissues kept for histopathological examination.	Facts
Above mentioned material packed, sealed, labled and handed over to N.P.C. Ganesh, B.No.215 of P.S. Parwa.	Facts
The receipt of P.C. Ganesh is on Ex.31 on the reverse of Ex.35.	Facts
It bears signature of Dr. R.R. Khetre on the top of Ex.35 with endorsement.	Facts
I know his signature.	Facts
The endorsement is at Ex.52.	Facts
My opinion as to cause of death is shock and haemorrhage following perineal tear with multiple injuries.	Facts
There was forceful sexual assault on the child.	Facts
The injury No.17 was caused by forceful insertion of penis.	Facts
The postmortem report bears my signature along with signatures of Doctors as named above.	Facts
Contents are correct.	Facts
It is at Ex.53.	None
In the crossexamination, the witness accepted that it was not mentioned in the Post Mortem Report that injury No.5 was caused by sharp edged teeth.	None
The relevant part of the crossexamination was as under It is true that the column no.17 note no.2 in respect of injury no.5	None
it is not mentioned that the injury is caused by sharp edged teeth.	None
Witness volunteers that we had sent the sample for D.N.A. test.	Facts
It is true that I had not specifically opined in P.M. report that injury No.5 of column no.17 was caused by sharp edged teeth.	Facts
It is not true that the injury by teeth bite cannot produce clean cut margin.	Facts
8.4 Chandrakant Narayan Bijapwar, a grocery shop owner was examined as PW9.	None
He stated that at about 7.00 p.m. on 11.02.2013 the Accused had come to his shop and had purchased Parle Biscuits and Laxminarayan Chiwada but he could not remember who was with the Accused at that time.	Facts
The witness was, therefore, declared hostile.	Facts
8.5	None
The Investigating Officer A.P.I. Pankaj Vanjari was examined as PW13 and deposed to the steps undertaken during investigation.	Facts
He deposed On 2022013 I had sent the letter to J.M.F.C. Ghatanji for recording the statements u s 164 of Cr.P.C. of the grandfather and Vikas Masram.	Facts
The letter bears my signature.	Facts
It is at Exh.81.	Facts
Accordingly I received Exh.17.	None
Exhibit 17 is the statement of the grandfather of the victim under Section 164 of the Code(The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973) .	Facts
However, the record is not clear whether Vikas Meshram was examined under Section 164, and, if not, the reason for such nonexamination.	Facts
In crossexamination of this witness, a suggestion made to him was replied as under W.1 had stated that people beat the accused by fist and kick blows.	Facts
It is mentioned in his statement 8.6 Vikas Meshram was not examined in the trial as a witness.	Facts
Similarly, Baban Sambhaji Meshram, the father of the Appellant (referred to in the FIR) and Shrawan and Meshram (referred to in the deposition of PW2) were not examined as witnesses.	Facts
In the examination of the Appellant under Section 313 of the Code, when the evidence of PW7 Dr. Ulhas Digambar Lingawar was put to him, the Appellant stated that the evidence was false.	Facts
Similar was his response, when the evidence that the blood of the victim was found on his full pant, was put to him.	Facts
His explanation to Question No.61 was Q.61	None
Do you want to explain as to why prosecution witnesses are deposing against you?	None
Ans.	None
When I had gone to the house of deceased girl, her parents had a talk regarding the giving of human sacrifice of the deceased to find out the hidden treasure and after hearing it when I told them that if they do such act then I will lodge the report against them but they had lodged the false report against me and deposed falsely.	Facts
The Trial Court found that the following circumstances established the guilt of the Appellant The first circumstance is that the accused took away the deceased victim child from the lap of P.W.2, fatherinlaw of the complainant i.e. victims father by saying that the father of the deceased victim told him to bring the deceased victim to him.	None
The second circumstance is that the deceased victim child was in the custody of the accused since the time he took her away from P.W.2.	Facts
The third circumstance is that the deceased victim child was found lying isolated place where the construction of Anganwadi building was in progress and the accused was also found lying on the same spot near the deceased victim child.	Facts
The fourth circumstance is that as per report Exh. 44 issued by P.W.7 Dr. Lingawar, the injury of abrasion on tip of glance of penis was found on examination of the accused and he opined that the sign of sexual intercourse within 24 hours was present and it is due to sexual intercourse.	Facts
The fifth circumstance is that the pant of deceased victim child, pair of chappal of accused, pieces of flesh were seized from the spot of incident as per Exh.20.	Facts
The sixth circumstance is that the pant, shirt and knicker with the stains of semen of the accused were seized as per seizure panchanama Exh.26.	None
The seventh circumstance is that as per C.A. report Exh. 54 the blood present over the full pant of the accused was found to be of the deceased victim child and it shows the perfect matching with the blood of the deceased victim.	None
The eighth circumstance is that as per postmortem report Exh.53 and opinion of Dr. Gadge who had conducted autopsy on the dead body of victim child, the injury No.17 was caused by forceful insertion of the penis as there was forceful sexual assault on the deceased victim child and the death of victim child was caused due to perineal tear and multiple injuries and the injuries were caused due to nibbling by teeth and bite marks were found over the parts of the body of deceased victim child.	Facts
Even the pieces of flesh were also found on the spot of incident which shows the brutality in commission of crime.	Facts
10.1	None
Finding the Appellant guilty of the offences with which he was charged, the Trial Court in its judgment dated 14.8.2015, stated After declaring the accused guilty for the offences punishable under Section 376(1)(2)(f)(i)(m) of Indian Penal Code, under Section 376A of Indian Penal Code, under Section 302 of Indian Penal Code, and under Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, I take a pause to hear the accused on the point of sentence.	Facts
10.2	None
Thereafter, on the same day, the Trial Court recorded The learned Public Prosecutor has submitted that the deceased victim was helpless child aged two years and the accused is related to her.	Facts
The accused had committed rape and murder after taking away the victim child from her grandfather and as per the injuries described in P.M. report by P.W.10 Dr. Gadge, the accused had committed inhuman act because the victim child had sustained injury of perineal tear and injuries of bite marks and even the lips were removed and as per the injury No.17 the injury of perineal tear was caused by forceful sexual assault on the deceased victim child by the accused.	Facts
Therefore, there are aggravating circumstances and the crime was well planned.	Facts
It is further submitted that there is no chance of reformation of the accused.	Facts
The learned Public Prosecutor has further submitted that the case falls under the category of rarest of rare case for awarding death sentence.	Facts
In support of his submission he has placed reliance on the observations made by the Honble Apex Court in the case of Vasanta Sampat Dupare vs. State of Maharashtra, reported in 2015 Cri.	Facts
L.J. 774 2015 Cr.	Facts
L.J. 774 (2015) 1 SCC 253 , in which the Honble Apex Court has observed that, The gullibility and vulnerability of the four years girl, who could not have nurtured any idea about the maladroitly designed biological desires of this nature, went with the uncle who extinguished her life spark.	Facts
The barbaric act of the appellant does not remotely show any concern for the precious life of a young minor child who had really not seen life.	Facts
The criminality of the conduct of the appellant is not only depraved and debased, but can have a menacing effect on the society.	Facts
It is also held by the Honble Apex Court in the cited ruling that, A helpless and defenceless child gets raped and murdered because of the acquaintance of the appellant with the people of the society.	Facts
This is not only betrayal of an individual trust but destruction and devastation of social trust.	Facts
It is perversity in its enormity.	Facts
It irrefragably invites the extreme abhorrence and indignation of the collective.	Facts
It is an anthema to the social balance.	Facts
It meets the test of rarest of rare case and therefore, death sentence is affirmed.	Facts
The learned Public Prosecutor has further submitted that the prosecution case as per the ruling cited supra in which the death sentence was awarded was also based on circumstantial evidence and it was considered in the category of rarest of rare cases.	Facts
Having regard to the facts and circumstances and evidence on record, I am inclined to accept the argument advanced by the learned Public Prosecutor because in the facts of the ruling cited supra Wakkar and another vs. State of U.P. (2011) 3 SCC 306 by the learned defence counsel, there were two accused and it was not possible to discern and arrive at any definite conclusion as to the role played by each of the accused.	Facts
Here in the present case there is only one accused who committed rape and murder of the helpless and innocent child aged two years, therefore, ruling Vasanta Dupare vs. State of Maharashtra 2015 Cr.	Facts
L.J. 774 (2015) 1 SCC 253 is applicable to the present case.	Facts
It is necessary to mention that brutality in committing rape on the deceased victim child aged two years and taking away the life of deceased victim child is required to be taken into consideration for coming to the conclusion that the case is rarest of rare one warranting imposition of death sentence.	Facts
The deceased victim female child aged two years only was innocent and helpless child.	None
Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the crime and considering the relevant factors, sentence of life imprisonment appears to be inadequate punishment and I am of the opinion that this is the case which falls in the category of rarest or rare cases warranting the imposition of death sentence for the offence punishable under Section 376A of Indian Penal Code and for offence punishable under Section 302 of Indian Penal Code.	None
10.3	None
The Trial Court thus, by its order passed on the same day awarded Death Sentence to the Appellant on two counts, i.e. under Section 302 of IPC and under Section 376A of IPC Rigorous Imprisonment for life under two counts, i.e. Section 376(1)(2)(f), (i) and (m) of IPC and under Section 6 of POCSO Act.	None
The Death Sentence was subject to confirmation by the High Court.	Reasoning
The matter concerning confirmation of Death Sentence and the substantive appeal by the Appellant against his conviction were dealt with together and by its judgment and order presently under appeal, the conviction and sentence passed by the Trial Court were affirmed by the High Court.	None
It was observed by the High Court By applying yardstick set by the Apex Court in the case of Bachan Singh v. State of Punjab (1980) 2 SCC 684 and Machhi Singh and others v. State of Punjab (1983) 3 SCC 470 (cited supra) and the observations of this Court in the matter of Rakesh Kamble if the present matter is considered, in our opinion, in the guideline of aggravating circumstances, there is a mention of clause (b) which deal with the murder which involves exceptional depravity.	None
In the light of the clause, if the present matter is seen, the record reveals that the victim is a child of two and half years of age.	None
The victim was subjected to a forceful sexual exploitation.	None
The medical evidence shows that the death is caused due to the forceful intercourse.	None
In our opinion, the present case also covers clause (a) of aggravating circumstances wherein it is referred that if a murder is committed after previous planning and involves extreme brutality.	None
In the present matter, a child was taken from the custody of the grandfather and in spite of his resistance, a child was subjected to sexual violence and then was done to death.	None
In our opinion, the act of the appellant accused falls in clauses (a) and (b) of the aggravating circumstances.	None
We would also take into consideration the mitigating circumstances referred to in the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Bachan Singh v. State of Punjab (cited supra).	None
In our opinion, the only mitigating circumstance on which the appellant accused seeks benefit of clause (2) i.e. the accused is a young boy.	None
Even though the said mitigating circumstance of being of young age is available to the appellant accused while balancing the aggravating and mitigating factors, we are of the opinion that the said mitigating circumstance would not be of any help to the appellant accused.	None
In the present case also, the accused is the maternal uncle of the victim child.	None
The Apex Court recently in the matter of Purushottam Dashrath Borate and another v. State of Maharashtra (2015) 6 SCC 652 (cited supra), wherein the victim deceased who was serving in a private company and was subjected to rape and murder at the hands of the security guard and was awarded death sentence on consideration of the submission that the appellant accused is a person of young age, observed that such compassionate grounds are present in most of the cases and are not relevant for interference in awarding death sentence.	None
The Apex Court further observed that the principle that when the offence is gruesome and was committed in a calculated and diabolical manner, the age of the accused may not be a relevant factor.	None
In our opinion, the measure of punishment in a given case must depend upon the atrocity of the crime the conduct of the criminal and the defenceless and unprotected state of the victim.	None
Imposition of appropriate punishment is the manner in which the Courts respond to the societys cry for justice against the criminals.	None
Justice demands that Courts should impose punishment befitting the crime so that the Courts reflect public abhorrence of the crime.	None
The Courts must not only keep in view the rights of the criminal but also the rights of the victim of crime and the society at large while considering imposition of appropriate punishment.	None
The Apex Court also made it clear that lack of criminal antecedents also cannot be considered as mitigating circumstances, particularly taking into consideration, the nature of heinous offence and cold and calculated manner in which it was committed by the accused persons.	None
The Apex Court in the matter of Vasanta Sampat Dupare v. State of Maharashtra6 (cited supra), wherein the victim was a girl of four years of age and the appellant accused, a neighbour luring the victim for giving her chocolate, raped her and done her to death by hit of stones.	None
The Apex Court on the backdrop of the medical evidence, namely the victim was subjected to forceful sexual intercourse, the deceased was last seen with the accused and the immediate lodgement of report by the father of the girl, lending credence to the prosecution case, observed thus In the case at hand, as we find, not only was the rape committed in a brutal manner, but murder was also committed in a barbaric manner.	None
The rape of a minor girl child is nothing but a monstrous burial of her dignity in the darkness.	None
It is a crime against the holy body of a girl child and the soul of society and such a crime is aggravated by the manner in which it has been committed.	None
The nature of the crime and the manner in which it has been committed speaks about its uncommonness.	None
The crime speaks of depravity, degradation and uncommonality.	None
It is diabolical and barbaric.	None
The crime was committed in an inhuman manner.	None
Indubitably, these go a long way to establish the aggravating circumstances.	None
We are absolutely conscious that mitigating circumstances are to be taken into consideration.	None
The learned Counsel for the appellant pointing out the mitigating circumstances would submit that the appellant is in his mid fifties and there is possibility of his reformation.	None
Be it noted, the appellant was aged about forty seven years at the time of commission of the crime.	None
As is noticeable, there has been no remorse on the part of appellant.	None
There are cases when this Court has commuted the death sentence to life finding that the accused has expressed remorse or the crime was not premeditated.	None
But the obtaining factual matrix when unfolded stage by stage would show the premeditation, the proclivity and the rapacious desire.	None
The learned Counsel would submit that the appellant had no criminal antecedents but we find that he was a history  sheeter and had a number of cases pending against him.	None
That alone may not be sufficient.	None
The appalling cruelty shown by him to the minor girl child is extremely shocking and it gets accentuated, when his age is taken into consideration.	None
It was not committed under any mental stress or emotional disturbance and it is difficult to comprehend that he would not commit such acts and would be reformed or rehabilitated.	None
As the circumstances would graphically depict, he would remain a menace to society, for a defenceless child has become his prey.	None
In our considered opinion, there are no mitigating circumstances.	None
As we perceive, this case deserves to fall in the category of the rarest of rare cases.	None
It is inconceivable from the perspective of the society that a married man aged about two scores and seven makes a four years minor innocent girl child the prey of his lust and deliberately causes her death.	None
A helpless and defenceless child gets raped and murdered because of the acquaintance of the appellant with the people of the society.	None
This is not only betrayal of an individual trust but destruction and devastation of social trust.	Facts
It is perversity in its enormity.	Facts
It irrefragably invites the ext reme abhorrence and indignation of the collective.	Facts
It is an anathema to the social balance.	None
In our view, it meets the test of the rarest of the rare case and we unhesitatingly so hold.	None
With this view, the High Court upheld the conviction and sentence as recorded by the Trial Court and confirmed the Death Sentence.	Reasoning
As the Death Sentence and life imprisonment have been awarded on two counts each, the statutory changes that the concerned provisions of the IPC and POCSO Act have undergone may briefly be adverted to Before 03.02.2013, the relevant portions of Sections 375, 376 and 376A of IPC were as under Rape.	None
A man is said to commit rape who, except in the case hereinafter excepted, has sexual intercourse with a woman under circumstances falling under any of the six folloing descriptions Firstly.	None
Against her will.	None
Secondy.	None
Without her consent.	None
Thirdly.	None
Fourthly.	None
Fifthly.	None
Sixthly.	None
With or without her consent, when she is under sixteen years of age.	None
Explanation Punishment for rape(1) Whoever, except in the cases provided for by subsection (2), commits rape shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which shall not be less than seven years but which may for life or for a term which may extend to ten years and shall also be liable to fine unless the woman raped is his own wife and is not under twelve years of age, in which cases, he shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years or with fine or with both Provided that the court may, for adequate and special reasons to be mentioned in the judgement, impose a sentence of imprisonment for a term of less than seven years.	None
Whoever, (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) commits rape on a woman when she is under twelve years of age or (g) shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than ten years but which may be for life and shall also be liable to fine Provided that the Court may, for adequate and special reasons to be mentioned in the judgement, impose a sentence of imprisonment of either description for a term of less than ten years.	None
Explanation 1.	None
Explanation 2.	None
Explanation 3.	None
376A. Intercourse by a man with his wife during separation.whoever has sexual intercourse with his own wife, who is living separately from him under a decree of separation or under any custom or usage without her consent shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years and shall also be liable to fine On 03.02.2013, the Criminal Law (Amendment) Ordinance, 2013 (No.3 of 2013), hereinafter referred to as the Ordinance was promulgated by the President of India.	None
Section 8 of the Ordinance inter alia substituted Sections 375, 376 and 376A of IPC the relevant text of the substituted provisions being A person is said to commit sexual assault if that person (a) penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of another person or makes the person to do so with him or any other person or (b) (c) (d) (e) touches the vagina, penis, anus or breast of the person or makes the person touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of that person or any other person, except where such penetration or touching is carried out for proper hygienic or medical purposes under the circumstances falling under any of the following seven descriptions FirstAgainst the other persons will.	None
Secondly.	None
Without the other persons consent.	None
Thirdly.	None
Fourthly.	None
Fifthly.	None
Sixthly.	None
With or without the other persons consent, when such other person is under eighteen years of age.	None
Seventhly.	None
Explanation 1 Explanation 2 Explanation 3 Exception.	None
376.	None
(1) Whoever, except in the cases provided for by subsection (2), commits sexual assault, shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment of either description for a term which shall not be less than seven years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.	None
(2) whoever, (a) (i) (ii) (iii) (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) being a relative, guardian or teacher of, or a person in a position of trust or authority towards, the person assaulted, commits sexual assault on such person or (g) (h) commits sexual assault on a person when such person is under eighteen years of age or (i) (j) (k) (l) while committing sexual assault causes grievous bodily harm or maims or disfigures or endangers the life of a person or (m) shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than ten years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.	None
Explanation 1.	None
Explanation 2.	None
376A. Whoever, commits an offence punishable under subsection (1) of subsection (2) of section 376 and in the course of such commission inflicts an injury which causes the death of the person or cause the person to be in a persistent vegetative state, shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than twenty years, but which may extend to imprisonment for life, which shall mean the remainder of that persons natural life, or with death.	Reasoning
The Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013 (No.13 of 2013), hereinafter referred to as the Amendment Act received the assent of the President and was published on 02.04.2013 but was given retrospective effect from 03.02.2013. Section 9 of the Amendment Act inter alia substituted Sections 375, 376 and 376A of IPC as under A man is said to commit rape if he (a) penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a woman or makes her to do so with him or any other person or (b) (c) (d) under the circumstances falling under any of the following seven descriptions  First.	None
Against her will.	None
Secondly.	None
Without her consent.	None
Thirdly.	None
Fourthly.	None
Fifthly.	None
Sixthly.	None
With or without her consent, when she is under eighteen years of age.	None
Seventhly.	None
Explanation 1 Explanation 2 Exception 1 Exception 2 376.	None
(1) Whoever, except in the cases provided for in subsection (2), commits rape, shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment of either description for a term which shall not be less than seven years, but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.	None
Whoever, (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) being a relative, guardian or teacher of, or a person in a position of trust or authority towards the woman, commits rape on such woman or (g) (h) commits rape on a woman when she is under sixteen years of age or (j) (k) (l) (m) while committing rape causes grievous bodily harm or maims or disfigures or endangers the life of a woman or (n) shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than ten years, but which may extend to imprisonment for life, which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of that persons natural life, and shall also be liable to fine.	None
Explanation.	None
376A. Whoever, commits an offence punishable under subsection (1) or subsection (2) of section 376 and in the course of such commission inflicts an injury which causes the death of the woman or causes the woman to be in a persistent vegetative state, shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than twenty years, but which may extend to imprisonment for life, which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of that persons natural life, or with death.	None
While repealing the Ordinance, Section 30 of the Amendment Act states as under 30.	None
(1) The Criminal Law (Amendment) Ordinance, 2013 is hereby repealed.	None
Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the Indian Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 and the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, as amended by the said Ordinance, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of those Acts, as amended by this Act.	None
The Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2018 (Act 22 of 2018) which came into effect from 21.04.2018, deleted clause (i) of Section 376(2) of IPC and added subsection (3) after Section 376(2) as well as inserted Section 376AB as under 376 Whoever, commits rape on a woman under sixteen years of age shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than twenty years, but which may extend to imprisonment for life, which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of that persons natural life, and shall also be liable to fine 376AB Punishment for rape on woman under twelve years of age Whoever, commits rape on a woman under twelve years of age shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than twenty years, but which may extend to imprisonment for life, which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of that persons natural life, and with fine or with death Since the offence in the instant case was committed well before 21.04.2018, we are not called upon to consider the effect of Act 22 of 2018 but the provisions are noted for the sake of completeness.	None
Sections 5 and 6 of the POCSO Act, at the time when the offence was committed in the instant case, provided  5 Aggravated penetrative sexual assaulta) b) c) d) e) f) g) h) .	None
i) Whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on a child, which Physically incapacitates the child or causes the child to become mentally ill as defined under clause (b) of section 2 of the mental health Act, 1987 (14 of 1987) or causes impairment of any kind so as to render the child unable to perform regular tasks, temporarily or permanently In the case of female child, makes the child pregnant as a consequence of sexual assault Inflicts the child with Human Immunodeficiency Virus or any other lifethreatening disease or infection which may either temporarily or permanently impair the child by rendering him physically incapacitated, or mentally ill to perform regular tasks k) l)	None
Whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on a child below twelve years or n) o) p) q) r) s) t) u) Punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault.	None
Whoever, commits aggravated penetrative sexual assault, shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than ten years but which may extend to imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to fine.	None
By virtue of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Amendment) Act, 2019 (Act 25 of 2019) which came into effect on 16.08.2019, subClause (iv) was inserted in Clause (j) of Section 5 as under causes death of the child or Further, Section 6 was substituted as under Punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault.	None
Whoever commits aggravated penetrative sexual assault shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than twenty years, but which may extend to imprisonment for life, which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of natural life of that person, and shall also be liable to fine, or with death.	None
The fine imposed under subsection (1) shall be just and reasonable and paid to the victim to meet the medical expenses and rehabilitation of such victim.	None
If the abovementioned provisions of IPC are considered in three compartments, that is to say, The situation obtaining before 03.02.2013	Reasoning
The situation in existence during 03.02.2013 to 02.04.2013 and, The situation obtaining after 02.04.2013 following features emerge  The offence under Section 375, as is clear from the definition of relevant provision in compartment (A), could be committed against a woman.	Reasoning
The situation was sought to be changed and made gender neutral in compartment (B).	Reasoning
However, the earlier position now stands restored as a result of provisions in compartment (C) Before 03.02.2013 the sentence for an offence under Section 376(1) could not be less than seven years but the maximum sentence could be life imprisonment and for an offence under Section 376(2) the minimum sentence could not be less than ten years while the maximum sentence could be imprisonment for life.	Reasoning
Section 376A dealt with cases where a man committed nonconsensual sexual intercourse with his wife in certain situations.	None
As a result of the Ordinance, the sentences for offences under Sections 376(1) and 376(2) were retained in the same fashion.	None
However, a new provision in the form of Section 376A was incorporated under which, if while committing an offence punishable under subsection (1) or subsection (2) of Section 376, a person inflicts an injury which causes the death of the victim, the accused could be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than 20 years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, which shall mean the remainder of that persons natural life or with death.	Reasoning
Thus, for the first time, Death Sentence could be imposed if a fatal injury was caused during the commission of offence under subsection (1) or (2) of Section 376.	Reasoning
Though the provisions of the Amendment Act restored the original non genderneutral position visvis the victim, it made certain changes in subsection (2) of Section 376.	Reasoning
Now, the punishment for the offence could be rigorous imprisonment for not less than ten years which could extend to imprisonment for life, which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of that persons natural life.	Reasoning
It was, thus, statutorily made clear that the imprisonment for life would mean till the last breath of that persons natural life.	Reasoning
Similarly, by virtue of the Amendment Act, for the offence under Section 376A, the punishment could not be less than 20 years which may extend to imprisonment for life which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of that persons natural life, or with death.	Reasoning
In the instant case, the offence was committed on 11.02.2013 when the provisions of the Ordinance were in force.	Reasoning
However, the Amendment Act having been given retrospective effect from 03.02.2013, the question arises whether imposition of life sentence for the offence under Section 376(2) could mean imprisonment for the remainder of that persons natural life.	Reasoning
In the present case, since the victim was about two and half years of age at the time of incident and since it was the Ordinance which was holding the field, going by the provisions of the Ordinance, Clauses (f), (h) and (l) of Section 376(2) would get attracted.	Reasoning
The comparable provisions of Section 376(2) as amended by the Amendment Act would be, Clauses (f), (i) and (m) respectively.	Reasoning
As the substantive penal provisions under the Clauses (f), (h) and (l) as inserted by the Ordinance and Clauses (f), (i) and (m) as inserted by the Amendment Act are identical, no difficulty on that count is presented.	Reasoning
But the sentence prescribed by Section 376(2) as amended by the Amendment Act, has now, for the first time provided that the imprisonment for life shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of that persons natural life.	Reasoning
This provision comes with retrospective effect and in a situation where such prescription was not available on the statute when the offence was committed, the question arises whether such expost facto prescription would be consistent with the provisions of subArticle (1) of Article 20 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
An imposition of life sentence simpliciter does not put any restraints on the power of the executive to grant remission and commutation in exercise of its statutory power, subject of course to Section 433A of the Code.	Reasoning
But, a statutory prescription that it shall mean the remainder of that persons life will certainly restrain the executive from exercising any such statutory power and to that extent the concerned provision definitely prescribes a higher punishment expost facto.	Reasoning
In the process, the protection afforded by Article 20(1) of the Constitution would stand negated.	Reasoning
We must, therefore, declare that the punishment under Section 376(2) of the IPC in the present case cannot come with stipulation that the life imprisonment shall mean the remainder of that persons life.	Reasoning
Similar prescription in Section 6 of the POCSO Act, which came by way of amendment in 2019, would not be applicable and the governing provision for punishment for the offence under the POCSO Act must be taken to be the preamendment position as noted hereinabove.	Reasoning
However, in so far as the situation covered by Section 376A of IPC as amended by the Amendment Act is concerned, substantively identical situation was dealt with by Section 376A as amended by the Ordinance and the prescription of sentence in Section 376A by the Amendment Act is identical to that prescribed by Section 376A as amended by the Ordinance.	Reasoning
Section 376A as amended by the Ordinance being gender neutral so far as victim was concerned, naturally covered cases where a victim was a woman.	Reasoning
Thus, the expost facto effect given to Section 376A by the Amendment Act from the day the Ordinance was promulgated, would not in way be inconsistent with the provisions of subArticle (1) of Article 20 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Having considered the legal provisions involved in the matter, we now turn to the submissions advanced by the learned counsel.	None
17.1 Ms. Sonia Mathur, learned Senior Advocate for the Appellant submitted  A) While noting eight circumstances against the Appellant, certain circumstances were ignored by the Courts below, namely (i) Both the lips of the victim showed clean cut margins indicating that the injuries were suffered by a weapon and not by a human bite.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, odontology report was not furnished to substantiate the theory that the injuries could be by a human bite and by the Appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
(ii) The vaginal, cervical, and anal swabs were sent for forensic examination but none of these could be associated with the Appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
These important facets pointing towards innocence of the Appellant were completely disregarded.	Arguments of Petitioner
B) Each of the circumstances found against the Appellant, was then dealt with as under  (i) PWs 1 and 2 were not independent witnesses to prove the first circumstance that the victim was taken away by the Appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
There were discrepancies in the statements of PWs 1 and 2.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand witnesses such as Shravan, Vitthal Ghodam and Vikas Meshram were not examined at all.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even the wife of PW2 whose presence was referred to in the statement of PW2 under Section 164 of the Code, was not examined.	Arguments of Petitioner
(ii) The fact that the victim was always in the custody of the Appellant since the time she was taken away from PW2, was not proved.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW9 was examined to establish this circumstance but did not support the prosecution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Moreover, Vikas Meshram who allegedly saw the victim with the Appellant was also not examined.	Arguments of Petitioner
(iii) The spot where the victim was found lying was not an isolated place but was in the middle of the village surrounded by houses.	Arguments of Petitioner
No independent witness was examined to corroborate the version of PWs 1 and 2.	Arguments of Petitioner
Independent witnesses like Shravan, Vitthal Ghodam and Vikas Meshram were not examined.	Arguments of Petitioner
The initial noting in the form of GD entry 40/13 (which was referred to in the FIR) mentioned that the Appellant took away the victim to the jungle and killed her.	Arguments of Petitioner
(iv) The Appellant was examined at the time of arrest but the medical evidence in that behalf was not placed on record.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, the prosecution chose to rely on the medical evidence through the opinion of PW7 Dr. Lingawar.	Arguments of Petitioner
(v) The spot panchnama was done at 830 a.m. next day i.e. more than eight hours after the arrest of the Appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
The chappals found at the spot were not sent for any examination, nor was any evidence led to show that they belonged to the Appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Though, the pieces of flesh seized from the spot were sent for forensic examination, there was nothing on record to show that the flesh was of a human being and of the victim.	Arguments of Petitioner
(vi)	Arguments of Petitioner
The FSL report did not find any semen on any of the articles sent for examination and the finding rendered by the Courts below in so far as 6th circumstance was thus erroneous.	Arguments of Petitioner
(vii) There were discrepancies in the chain of custody of the clothes referred to in the 7th circumstance.	Arguments of Petitioner
At the time of his arrest no blood was noticed on the clothes of the Appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW13, the Investigating officer accepted that he did not find any suspicious thing with the Appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even when the Appellant was examined by PW7 Dr. Ulhas Digambar Lingawar, no blood was detected.	Arguments of Petitioner
The seizure report also did not disclose any presence of blood spots on the clothes of the Appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
The trousers of the Appellant were in police custody from 12.02.2013 till 14.02.2013 and no malkhana record or witnesses were produced.	Arguments of Petitioner
It would, therefore, be highly unlikely that moderate number of blood stains ranging from 0.1 to 2cm mostly on front portion found in the FSL report could have been missed out at the earlier stages.	Arguments of Petitioner
The evidence would therefore be unworthy of reliance.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, there was a requisition for videography of the post mortem and yet no videographs were placed on record, in the absence of which the material sent for DNA examination could not be relied upon.	Arguments of Petitioner
(viii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The record certainly indicated that the victim was sexually assaulted but the eighth circumstance did not by itself establish that the Appellant was the author of crime.	Arguments of Petitioner
C)	Arguments of Petitioner
The facts on record did not conclusively establish the guilt of the Appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since the case was based on circumstantial evidence, going by the principles laid down by this Court, the case was not established at all.	Arguments of Petitioner
17.2	Arguments of Petitioner
While dealing with the question of sentence Ms. Mathur, learned Senior Advocate submitted  I)	Arguments of Petitioner
The sentence of death having been passed on the same day when the conviction order was pronounced, there was noncompliance of Section 235(2) of the Code and as laid down by this Court in Allauddin Mian v. State of Bihar (1989) 3 SCC 5 para 10, Malkiat Singh and others v. State of Punjab (1991) 4 SCC 341 para 18 and Ajay Pandit v. State of Maharashtra (2012) 8 SCC 43 para 47, the infraction on that count was sufficient to consider commutation of the sentence of death to that of life imprisonment.	Arguments of Petitioner
II)	Arguments of Petitioner
The instant case being based on circumstantial evidence, as held by this Court in Bishnu Prasad Sinha v. State of Assam (2007) 11 SCC 467 para 55, Sebastian Chevithiyan v. State of Kerala (2010) 1 SCC 58 para 17, Purna Chandra Kusal v. State of Orissa (2011) 15 SCC 352 para 7 and Kalu Khan v. State of Rajasthan (2015) 16 SCC 492 paras 16, 23 and 31, no death sentence be awarded and the appropriate punishment could be life sentence.	Arguments of Petitioner
III)	Arguments of Petitioner
Relying on the decisions of this Court in Ashok Debabarma Achak Debbarma v. State of Tripura (2014) 4 SCC 747 , Sudam v. State of Maharashtra (2019) 9 SCC 388 and Ravishankar alias Baba Vishwakarma vs. State of Madhya Pradesh (2019) 9 SCC 689 , it was submitted that even if the circumstances on record were sufficient to record conviction against the Appellant, there were gaps in the evidence and the benefit of residual doubt ought to be extended in favour of the Appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
IV)	Arguments of Petitioner
In terms of law laid down by this Court in Rajesh Kumar v. State through Government of NCT of Delhi (2011) 13 SCC 706 paras 72 to 74 , the burden was on the prosecution to rule out the possibility of reformation of the Appellant and that as held in Mohinder Singh v. State of Punjab (2013) 3 SCC 294 , paras 22, 23 , the exclusion of possibility of reformation could only be on the basis of evidence led by the prosecution.	Arguments of Petitioner
V)	Arguments of Petitioner
The Appellant completed Bachelors Preparatory programme (BPP) from Indira Gandhi National Open University in 2017 while in prison and is presently pursuing Bachelors Degree course in Arts. VI)	Arguments of Petitioner
The Appellant was about 21 years of age at the time of incident and as held by this Court in Bachan Singh v. State of Punjab (1980) 2 SCC 684 , Rameshbhai Chandubhai Rathod (2) v. State of Gujarat (2011) 2 SCC 764 paras 8 and 10, Amit v. State of U.P. (2012) 4 SCC 107 para 22 and Sunil v. State of M.P.(2017) 4 SCC 393 para 12 , the young age of the Appellant at the time of incident is a factor in his favour.	Arguments of Petitioner
VII)	Arguments of Petitioner
The socioeconomic condition of the Appellant showed that he was a labourer and belonged to Scheduled Tribes which again would be a factor in his favour as held by this Court in Sunil Damodar Gaikwad v. State of Maharashtra (2014) 1 SCC 129 para 20 .	Arguments of Petitioner
VIII)	Arguments of Petitioner
The family of the Appellant being in touch with the him, there is a strong probability of rehabilitation as observed by this Court in Mohinder Singh v. State of Punjab (2013) 3 SCC 294 , paras 22, 23 .	Arguments of Petitioner
IX)	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, as there were no criminal antecedents as has been ruled by this Court in Surendra Pal Shivbalak Pal v. State of Gujarat (2005) 3 SCC 127 para 13 , Mahesh Dhanaji Shinde v. State of Maharashtra.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2014) 4 SCC 292 paras 38 and 39, Santosh Kumar Singh v. State of M.P. (2014) 12 SCC 650 para 30 and Shyam Singh Bhima v. State of Madhya Pradesh (2017) 11 SCC 265 paras 6 and 8 , due weightage ought to be given in favour of the Appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
17.3 Mr. Sushil Karanjkar, learned Advocate for the State submitted that all the aforesaid eight circumstances were individually established beyond any doubt and they collectively formed a clear and consistent chain ruling out every other hypothesis except the guilt of the Appellant.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that as held by this Court in B. A. Umesh vs. Registrar General, High Court of Karnataka (2017) 4 SCC 124 and subsequent cases, the mere fact that the death sentence was pronounced on the same day when the conviction was recorded, by itself would not be sufficient to commute the death sentence to life imprisonment and that the Appellant had sufficient opportunity to advance submissions on the issue of sentence which opportunity was availed of.	Arguments of Respondent
He also submitted that the circumstances having been established beyond any shadow of doubt there was no room for any residual doubt.	Arguments of Respondent
In his submission, the factors that the crime in the instant case was gruesome and diabolical, where two and a half year old girl was subjected to sexual assault and the manner in which it was committed, were by themselves weighty and sufficient to tilt the balance against the Appellant and that as laid down by this Court in Vasanta Sampat Dupare v. State of Maharashtra 2015 Cr.	Arguments of Respondent
L.J. 774 (2015) 1 SCC 253 , in review arising therefrom (in Vasanta Sampat Dupare v. State of Maharashtra (2017) 6 SCC 631 ), and in Mukesh and Another v. State ( NCT of Delhi) and Others (2017) 6 SCC 1 , the extreme depravity and the barbaric manner in which the crime was committed would clearly outweigh any mitigating circumstance advanced on behalf of the Appellant.	Arguments of Respondent
We shall first consider the evidence on record to see whether the guilt of the Appellant is conclusively established on the strength of the material on record and whether the circumstances on record form a clear and consistent chain to rule out every other hypothesis except the guilt of the Appellant.	Issue
The law on the point is clear from the following observations of this Court in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda vs. State of Maharashtra (1984) 4 SCC 116 , A close analysis of this decision would show that the following conditions must be fulfilled before a case against an accused can be said to be fully established (1) the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established.	Reasoning
It may be noted here that this Court indicated that the circumstances concerned must or should and not may be established.	Reasoning
There is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between may be proved and must be or should be proved as was held by this Court in Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade v. State of Maharashtra (1973) 2 SCC 793 where the observations were made Certainly, it is a primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance between may be and must be is long and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions.	Reasoning
(2) the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty, (3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency, (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved, and (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.	None
These principles have since then been followed consistently.	None
18.1	None
According to the prosecution, on the day in question at about 730 p.m. when the victim was with her grandfather, on the pretext that the father of the victim had asked the Appellant to bring the victim, the Appellant, who was maternal uncle of the victim, took her away.	Reasoning
This part of the evidence is conclusively established through the testimony of PW2, the grandfather.	Reasoning
This version finds mention in the FIR which was recorded within few hours of the incident and in the statement of PW2 recorded under Section 164 of the Code.	Reasoning
There is nothing on record to doubt the veracity of said version.	Reasoning
It is true that some other witnesses were not examined by the prosecution but the strength of the testimony of PW2 does not get diminished on any count nor can it be said that his testimony loses its weight because the witness was the grandfather of the victim.	Reasoning
The version coming through this witness is cogent, consistent and also figured in prompt reporting of the FIR.	Reasoning
We have, therefore, no hesitation in accepting that the first circumstance as noted by the Trial Court stands conclusively established.	None
18.2 As deposed by PWs 1 and 2, the Appellant was found by the side of the victim at the spot i.e. in the premises of Anganwadi.	Reasoning
The victim was having various injuries whereafter	Reasoning
she was taken for medical attention.	Reasoning
Soon after the incident, the Appellant was also medically examined and Report Exbt.	Reasoning
46 showed injury on his body.	Reasoning
Even if PW9 had turned hostile and some other witnesses were not examined, the fact that the victim was always in the custody of Appellant till she was found at the spot alongside the Appellant is quite clear.	Reasoning
The proximity in terms of time and the promptitude in reporting are crucial factors and the evidence in that behalf is completely trustworthy.	Reasoning
Thus, in our view, the second and third circumstances are also fully established.	None
18.3 Soon after his arrest, the Appellant was produced for medical examination before PW 7 Dr. Ulhas Digambar Lingawar, who found injury on private parts of the Appellant.	Reasoning
The approximate time of said injury as given in the opinion Exh.46 is consistent with the case of prosecution.	Reasoning
The submission however is that the Appellant was also examined by another medical professional and that report was not placed on record.	Reasoning
The reference to the medical examination of the Appellant in terms of Section 53A of the Code was not to any other medical professional but to PW 7 Dr. Lingawar.	Reasoning
No explanation, not even a suggestion came from the Appellant how there could be an injury on his body as noticed in Report Exh.46.	Reasoning
Thus, the 4th circumstance also stands fully established.	None
18.4	Arguments of Petitioner
While considering the 5 th circumstance, it must be stated that as per record, the chappals were not proved to be that of the Appellant and the pieces of flesh found at the spot of incident were also not proved to be that of a human being.	Reasoning
To that extent, 5th circumstance was not proved at all.	Reasoning
However, the fact that the pant of the victim was found at the spot of incident is well established on record, and the 5 th circumstance must be taken to be proved only with respect to the recovery of the pant of the victim.	None
18.5	None
There is nothing on record to show that the stains of semen found on clothing referred to in 6th circumstance, were medically proved to be that of, or could be associated with the Appellant.	None
The 6th circumstance cannot therefore be taken to be pointing against the Appellant.	None
18.6	None
In terms of Chemical Analysers Report Ext.54, the blood found on the trousers of the Appellant was that of the victim.	None
This fact is completely established.	Reasoning
The submission however, is Nothing suspicious was found by PW13 the Investigating Officer with the Appellant at the time of his arrest and PW7 Dr. Lingawar had not noticed any blood stains on the trousers of the Appellant at the time of his medical examination No malkhana report or evidence was produced on record to state that the articles remained in proper custody and in sealed condition.	Reasoning
The answer given by the Investigating Officer cannot be stretched to say that there were no blood stains on his trousers at the time of arrest.	Reasoning
The medical opinion was obtained to consider whether there were any injuries on the private parts of the Appellant and whether he was capable of having sexual intercourse.	Reasoning
The facts on record show that the articles were sent for FSL examination at the earliest.	Reasoning
The Appellant was represented by a counsel of standing in the Trial Court.	Reasoning
The theory that the blood spots on the trousers of the Appellant were subsequently planted was not even developed in the cross examination of the concerned witnesses.	Reasoning
Given the quick succession of steps in investigation, including the medical examination and seizure of the clothes of the Appellant, we do not find any infirmity.	Reasoning
We, therefore, accept that the 7th circumstance stands fully established.	Reasoning
18.7	Arguments of Petitioner
It is a matter of record that as per PostMortem report and medical opinion, there was forceful sexual assault on the victim and her death was caused due to injury No.17 which was in the nature of multiple lacerations over vaginal and anal region and merging of vaginal and anal orifices.	Reasoning
The 8th circumstance must therefore be taken to be proved fully except to the extent that said circumstance makes reference to pieces of flesh found at the spot of incident.	Reasoning
Do the circumstances established on record satisfy the requirements spelt out in the decision of this Court in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda (1984) 4 SCC 116 is the next question for consideration.	Issue
The established circumstances show The victim was in the custody of the Appellant, from the time she was taken from her grandfather till she was found lying in the premises of Anganwadi where the Appellant was also found lying next to her.	Reasoning
The victim, who was hale and hearty when she was taken by the Appellant, had number of injuries on her body when she was found next to the Appellant.	None
The injuries on the body of the victim show that she was abused and sexually exploited.	Reasoning
The sexual assault was so forceful that the victim, a twoandahalfyearold girl suffered, among other injuries, Injury No.17.	None
Injury No.17, as described above, was so severe that there was merging of vaginal and anal orifices.	None
The victim died because of Injury No.17.	Reasoning
The Appellant had an injury on his private parts corresponding to the period when the victim was in his custody.	Reasoning
The Appellant was found to be capable of having sexual intercourse.	Reasoning
The trousers of the Appellant had blood stains, the DNA profiles of which, matched with that of the blood of the victim.	Reasoning
These circumstances at serial numbers a) to i) stand proved beyond any doubt and by themselves constitute a conclusive and consistent chain excluding every other hypothesis except the guilt of the Appellant.	Reasoning
We must at this stage deal with the submission of Ms. Mathur, learned Senior Advocate about nonconsideration of certain circumstances by the Courts below.	None
It is true that the injuries on the lips of the victim showed that the margins were clean cut and given the nature of evidence in that behalf, it cannot be said with certainty that those injuries could be taken to be the result of human bites.	Reasoning
But the other injuries on the body of the victim were definitely by human bites and as such the absence of clarity with regard to the injuries on the lips does not render the case of the prosecution doubtful in any manner.	Reasoning
Again, the absence of association of vaginal, cervical and anal swabs with the Appellant does not in any way diminish the strength of evidence against the Appellant.	Reasoning
The circumstances proved on record are not only conclusive in nature but completely support the case of the prosecution and are consistent with only one hypothesis and that is the guilt of the Appellant.	Reasoning
They form a chain, so complete, consistent and clear, that no room for doubt or ground arises pointing towards innocence of the Appellant.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, established beyond any shadow of doubt that the Appellant committed the acts of rape and sexual assault upon the victim and that injury no.17 was the cause of death of the victim.	Reasoning
The Appellant is thus guilty of having committed offences punishable under clauses (f), (i) and (m) of subsection (2) of Section 376 of IPC and also, under clauses (j) and (m) of Section 5 read with Section 6 of the POCSO Act, (as it stood before it was amended by Act 25 of 2019).	Reasoning
Since according to medical opinion, the death was because of injury No.17, the Appellant is also guilty of having committed offence punishable under Section 376A of IPC.	Reasoning
The injuries suffered by the victim were directly as a result of sexual assault inflicted upon her.	Reasoning
But the medical evidence does not disclose that either before or after the commission of sexual assault, any other injury was consciously caused with the intention to extinguish the life of the victim.	Reasoning
Injury No.17 which was the cause of death was suffered by the victim during the course of commission of sexual assault upon her.	Reasoning
The questions that arise, therefore, are whether such an act on part of the Appellant comes within the parameters of Sections 299 and 300 of IPC and whether he is guilty of having committed culpable homicide amounting to murder.	Issue
According to clause fourthly under Section 300 of IPC, the offence may come under the category of culpable homicide amounting to murder if the person committing the act knows that it is so imminently dangerous that it must, in all probability, cause death or such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, and commits such act without any excuse for incurring the risk of causing death or such injury as aforesaid.	None
The interplay between clauses of Sections 299 and 300 of the IPC was considered by this Court in State of Andhra Pradesh vs. Rayavarapu Punnayya and Another (1976) 4 SCC 382 as under The principal question that falls to be considered in this appeal is, whether the offence disclosed by the facts and circumstances established by the prosecution against the respondent, is murder or culpable homicide not amounting to murder.	None
In the scheme of the Penal Code, culpable homicide is genus and murder its specie.	Reasoning
All murder is culpable homicide but not viceversa.	Reasoning
Speaking generally, culpable homicide sans special characteristics of murder, is culpable homicide not amounting to murder.	Reasoning
For the purpose of fixing punishment, proportionate to the gravity of this generic offence, the Code practically recognises three degrees of culpable homicide.	Reasoning
The first is, what may be called, culpable homicide of the first degree.	Reasoning
This is the greatest form of culpable homicide, which is defined in Section 300 as murder.	Reasoning
The second may be termed as culpable homicide of the second degree.	Reasoning
This is punishable under the first part of Section 304.	Reasoning
Then, there is culpable homicide of the third degree.	Reasoning
This is the lowest type of culpable homicide and the punishment provided for it is, also, the lowest among the punishments provided for the three grades.	Reasoning
Culpable homicide of this degree is punishable under the second part of Section 304.	Reasoning
The academic distinction between murder and culpable homicide not amounting to murder has vexed the courts for more than a century.	Reasoning
The confusion is caused, if courts losing sight of the true scope and meaning of the terms used by the legislature in these sections, allow themselves to be drawn into minutae abstractions.	Reasoning
The safest way of approach to the interpretation and application of these provisions seems to be to keep in focus the keywords used in the various clauses of Sections 299 and 300.	Reasoning
The following comparative table will be helpful in appreciating the points of distinction between the two offences.	Reasoning
Clause (b) of Section 299 corresponds with clauses (2) and (3) of Section 300.	Reasoning
The distinguishing feature of the mens rea requisite under clause (2) is the knowledge possessed by the offender regarding the particular victim being in such a peculiar condition or state of health that the internal harm caused to him is likely to be fatal, notwithstanding the fact that such harm would not in the ordinary way of nature be sufficient to cause death of a person in normal health or condition.	Reasoning
It is noteworthy that the intention to cause death is not an essential requirement of clause (2).	Reasoning
Only the intention of causing the bodily injury coupled with the offenders knowledge of the likelihood of such injury causing the death of the particular victim, is sufficient to bring the killing within the ambit of this clause.	Reasoning
This aspect of clause (2) is borne out by Illustration (b) appended to Section 300.	None
Section 299 Section 300	None
A person commits culpable homicide if the act by which the death is caused is done Subject to certain exceptions culpable homicide is murder if the act by which the death is caused is done INTENTION With the intention of causing death or (1) With the intention of causing death or With the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death or (2) With the intention of causing such bodily injury as the offender knows to be likely to cause the death of the person to whom the harm is caused or With the intention of causing bodily injury to any person and the bodily injury intended to be inflicted is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death or KNOWLEDGE With the knowledge that the act is likely to cause death (4) With the knowledge that the act is so imminently dangerous that it must in all probability cause death or such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, and without any excuse for incurring the risk of causing death or such injury as is mentioned above.	None
Clause (b) of Section 299 does not postulate any such knowledge on the part of the offender.	Reasoning
Instances of cases falling under clause (2) of Section 300 can be where the assailant causes death by a fist blow intentionally given knowing that the victim is suffering from an enlarged liver, or enlarged spleen or diseased heart and such blow is likely to cause death of that particular person as a result of the rupture of the liver, or spleen or the failure of the heart, as the case may be.	Reasoning
If the assailant had no such knowledge about the disease or special frailty of the victim, nor an intention to cause death or bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death, the offence will not be murder, even if the injury which caused the death, was intentionally given.	Reasoning
In clause (3) of Section 300, instead of the words likely to cause death occurring in the corresponding clause (b) of Section 299, the words sufficient in the ordinary course of nature have been used.	Reasoning
Obviously, the distinction lies between a bodily injury likely to cause death and a bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.	Reasoning
The distinction is fine but real, and, if overlooked, may result in miscarriage of justice.	Reasoning
The difference between clause (b) of Section 299 and clause (3) of Section 300 is one of the degree of probability of death resulting from the intended bodily injury.	Reasoning
To put it more broadly, it is the degree of probability of death which determines whether a culpable homicide is of the gravest, medium or the lowest degree.	Reasoning
The word likely in clause (b) of Section 299 conveys the sense of probable as distinguished from a mere possibility.	Reasoning
The words bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death mean that death will be the most probable result of the injury, having regard to the ordinary course of nature.	Reasoning
For cases to fall within clause (3), it is not necessary that the offender intended to cause death, so long as the death ensues from the intentional bodily injury or injuries sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.	Reasoning
Rajwant v. State of Kerala AIR 1966 SC 1874 is an apt illustration of this point.	Reasoning
In Virsa Singh v. State of Punjab AIR 1958 SC 465 Vivian Bose, J. speaking for this Court, explained the meaning and scope of clause (3), thus (at p. 1500)	Reasoning
The prosecution must prove the following facts before it can bring a case under Section 300, thirdly.	None
First, it must establish quite objectively, that a bodily injury is present secondly the nature of the injury must be proved.	Reasoning
These are purely objective investigations.	Reasoning
It must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that particular injury, that is to say, that it was not accidental or unintentional or that some other kind of injury was intended.	Reasoning
Once these three elements are proved to be present, the enquiry proceeds further, and fourthly it must be proved that the injury of the type just described made up of the three elements set out above was sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.	Reasoning
This part of the enquiry is purely objective and inferential and has nothing to do with the intention of the offender.	Reasoning
Thus according to the rule laid down in Virsa Singh case AIR 1958 SC 465 of even if the intention of accused was limited to the infliction of a bodily injury sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature, and did not extend to the intention of causing death, the offence would be murder.	Reasoning
Illustration (c) appended to Section 300 clearly brings out this point.	Reasoning
Clause (c) of Section 299 and clause (4) of Section 300 both require knowledge of the probability of the act causing death.	Reasoning
It is not necessary for the purpose of this case to dilate much on the distinction between these corresponding clauses.	Reasoning
It will be sufficient to say that clause (4) of Section 300 would be applicable where the knowledge of the offender as to the probability of death of a person or persons in general as distinguished from a particular person or persons being caused from his imminently dangerous act, approximates to a practical certainty.	Reasoning
Such knowledge on the part of the offender must be of the highest degree of probability, the act having been committed by the offender without any excuse for incurring the risk of causing death or such injury as aforesaid.	Reasoning
From the above conspectus, it emerges that whenever a court is confronted with the question whether the offence is murder or culpable homicide not amounting to murder, on the facts of a case, it will be convenient for it to approach the problem in three stages.	Reasoning
The question to be considered at the first stage would be, whether the accused has done an act by doing which he has caused the death of another.	Reasoning
Proof of such causal connection between the act of the accused and the death, leads to the second stage for considering whether that act of the accused amounts to culpable homicide as defined in Section 299.	Reasoning
If the answer to this question is prima facie found in the affirmative, the stage for considering the operation of Section 300 of the Penal Code, is reached.	Reasoning
This is the stage at which the court should determine whether the facts proved by the prosecution bring the case within the ambit of any of the four clauses of the definition of murder contained in Section 300.	Reasoning
If the answer to this question is in the negative the offence would be culpable homicide not amounting to murder, punishable under the first or the second part of Section 304, depending, respectively, on whether the second or the third clause of Section 299 is applicable.	Reasoning
If this question is found in the positive, but the case comes within any of the exceptions enumerated in Section 300, the offence would still be culpable homicide not amounting to murder, punishable under the first part of Section 304, of the Penal Code.	Reasoning
The above are only broad guidelines and not castiron imperatives.	Reasoning
In most cases, their observance will facilitate the task of the court.	Reasoning
But sometimes the facts are so intertwined and the second and the third stages so telescoped into each other, that it may not be convenient to give a separate treatment to the matters involved in the second and third stages.	Reasoning
We may now consider the cases where the death may not have been intended but clause fourthly of Section 300 of IPC was applied to hold the accused guilty of offence of culpable homicide amounting to murder.	None
In State of Madhya Pradesh vs. Ram Prasad (1968) 2	None
SCR 522 , a woman was set afire by the accused after pouring kerosene oil on her.	None
A bench of three Judges of this Court dealt with the matter as under The question then arises, what was the offence which Ram Prasad can be said to have committed?	None
The offence of causing injury by burning is a broad spectrum which runs from s. 324 causing simple injury by burning through s. 326 namely, causing grievous injury by burning to the two major offences, namely, culpable homicide not amounting to murder and even murder itself.	None
The Sessions Judge chose the lowest end of the spectrum which is surprising enough, because the burns were so extensive that they were certainly grievous by all account.	None
The High Court placed the offence a little higher, namely, culpable homicide not amounting to murder.	None
We think that the matter goes a little further than this.	None
As death has been caused the question has to be considered in the light of homicide to determine whether the action of Ram Prasad falls within culpable homicide not amounting to murder or the higher offence of murder itself.	None
Here we see that death has actually been caused by the criminal act in other words, there has been homicide and since it is not accidental or suicidal death, responsibility for the homicide, in the absence of any exceptions or extenuating circumstances, must be borne by the person who caused it.	None
The High Court has apparently stopped short by holding that this was a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder.	None
The question is whether the offence falls in any of the clauses of s. 300 Indian Penal Code.	None
In this connection it is difficult to say that Ram Prasad intended causing the death of Mst. Rajji although it might well be the truth.	None
That he set fire to her clothes after pouring kerosene oil is a patent fact and therefore the matter has to be viewed not only with regard to the firstly of s. 300, but all the other clauses also.	None
We do not wish to consider the second and the third clauses, because the question then would arise what was the extent of the injury which Ram Prasad intended to cause or knew would be caused to Mst. Rajji.	None
That would be a matter of speculation.	None
In our opinion, this matter can be disposed of with reference to clause fourthly of s. 300.	None
That clause reads as follows  . . . .	None
.culpable homicide is murder. . . . .	Reasoning
if the person committing the act knows that is so imminently dangerous that it must in all probability, cause death or such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, and commits such act without any excuse for incurring the risk or causing death or such injury as aforesaid.	None
It is obvious that there was no excuse for Ram Prasad to have taken the risk of causing the death or such bodily injury as was likely to cause death.	None
The question therefore arises whether Ram Prasad knew that his act was so imminently dangerous that it must in all probability cause death or such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, so as to bring the matter within the clause.	None
Although clause fourthly is usually invoked in those cases where there is no intention to cause the death of any particular person (as the illustration shows) the clause may on its terms be used in those cases where there is such callousness towards the result and the risk taken is such that it may be stated that the person knows that the act is likely to cause death or such bodily injury as is likely to cause death.	None
In the present case, Ram Prasad poured kerosene upon the clothes of Mst. Rajji and set fire to those clothes.	None
It is obvious that such fire spreads rapidly and burns extensively.	None
No special knowledge is needed to know that one may cause death by burning if he sets fire to the clothes of a person.	None
Therefore, it is obvious that Ram Prasad must have known that he was running the risk of causing the death of Rajji or such bodily injury as was likely to cause her death.	None
As he had no excuse for incurring that risk, the offence must be taken to fall within 4thly of s. 300, Indian Penal Code.	None
In other words, his offence was culpable homicide amounting to murder even if he did not intend causing the death of Mst. Rajji.	None
He committed an act so imminently dangerous that it was in all probability likely to cause death or to result in an injury that was likely to cause death.	None
We are accordingly of the opinion that the High Court and the Sessions Judge were both wrong in holding that the offence did not fall within murder.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In a similar fact situation, another bench of three Judges of this Court, in Santosh S o Shankar Pawar vs. State of Maharashtra (2015) 7 SCC 641 observed, Even assuming that the accused had no intention to cause the death of the deceased, the act of the accused falls under clause Fourthly of Section 300 IPC that is the act of causing injury so imminently dangerous where it will in all probability cause death.	None
Any person of average intelligence would have the knowledge that pouring of kerosene and setting her on fire by throwing a lighted matchstick is so imminently dangerous that in all probability such an act would cause injuries causing death.	None
The principle in Santosh (2015) 7 SCC 641 was adopted in Suraj Jagannath Jadhav vs. State of Maharashtra (2020) 2 SCC 693 .	None
In State of Haryana vs. Krishan and Another (2017) 8 SCC 204 , where 36 persons had died after consuming spurious liquor, this Court set aside the acquittal ordered by the High Court and restored the order of conviction under Section 302 IPC passed by the trial Court.	None
It was observed Insofar as argument predicated on Section 120B IPC is concerned, even if we proceed on the basis that charge of conspiracy is not proved, it would be suffice to observe that adequate evidence is produced showing the culpability of the respondents, individually.	None
Once it is shown that the spurious liquor was sold from the local vends belonging to the respondents coupled with the fact that after this tragedy struck, the respondents even tried to destroy remaining bottles clearly establishes that the respondents had full knowledge of the fact that the bottles contain substance methyl and also had full knowledge about the disastrous consequences thereof which would bring their case within the four corners of Section 300 Fourthly.	None
The respondents cannot be treated as mere cats paw and naive.	None
They have exploited the resilient nature of bucolic and rustic villagers.	None
We may now consider some of the decisions of this Court in which deaths had occurred because of injuries sustained by the victims during sexual assault on them.	None
26.1	None
In State of Orissa vs. Dibakar Naik and Others (2002) 5 SCC 323 , a bench of two Judges of this Court dealt with a case where a lady of 23 years of age was gang raped and lost her life.	None
The concerned accused were convicted inter alia under Sections 376 and 302 read with Section 34 of IPC by the trial Court.	None
However, their conviction and sentence were set aside by the High Court.	None
The appeals preferred by the State were partly allowed and while convicting four accused under Sections 376 and 304 II IPC, it was observed by this Court However, the nature of the injuries inflicted upon the person of the deceased indicate that the accused persons had not intended to cause her death.	None
Dr Indramani Jena (PW 21) who conducted the postmortem over the dead body of Chhabirani had found the following injuries One swelling 1 diameter irregularly circular over right mastoid process.	None
One swelling (which was black in colour) on the upper half of right breast 2 in diameter irregular circular.	None
On dissection I found the following The swelling in right mastoid area had underlying haematoma.	None
There was fracture of right fourth rib under Injury 2.	None
Rightside chest was filled with blood of about one litre.	None
The right lung was displaced and was injured in anterior surface by fractured rib.	None
Heart chamber was empty, that is, there was no blood.	None
Stomach was empty.	None
There were two ecchymosis of in diameter each on posterior vaginal wall.	None
The injuries were in 5 oclock and 7 oclock positions.	None
On examination of the vaginal smear I found dead spermatozoa and epithelial cells.	None
By the time of my examination, there was process of decomposition.	None
Skin denudation had started.	None
Tongue was protruded and bitten.	None
There was bleeding from right angle of mouth and both ears.	None
Abdomen was protruded due to foul gases.	None
Death was within 48 hours of the PM examination.	None
He has opined that all injuries were antemortem.	None
Death was due to injuries causing internal haemorrhage.	None
There were signs of forcible sexual intercourse.	None
It was a case of violent type of intercourse.	None
The injuries found were not in normal course of sexual intercourse.	None
Any violent assault even without rape could cause Injuries 1 and 2 and the corresponding internal injuries.	None
Injury 2 with corresponding internal injury was sufficient to cause the death.	None
Whoever causes death by doing an act with the intention of causing death or with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death or with the knowledge that he is likely, by such act, to cause death, is responsible for the commission of the offence of culpable homicide.	None
Culpable homicide is murder if the act by which the death is caused is done with the intention of causing death and is not covered by any of the exceptions of Section 300 of the Indian Penal Code.	None
As already noticed, in this case there is no evidence to show that the aforesaid accused persons proved to have been involved in the occurrence, had intended to cause the offence of murder within the meaning of Section 300 as punishable under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.	None
However, on proof of the commission of offence of gang rape found to have been committed in a violent manner, they are assumed to be having the knowledge that by their action it was likely that the deceased would have died.	None
The aforesaid accused are, therefore, guilty of the offence, punishable under Part II of Section 304 of the Indian Penal Code.	None
While acquitting the other respondents we hold Birabar Mania (A5), Babaji Mania (A6), Bhira Behera Baba Tanti (A7) and Madha Tanti Madhabananda Parmanik (A11) guilty for the commission of offences punishable under Section 304 Part II read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code besides the commission of offence punishable under Section 376 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code.	None
The conviction and sentence awarded by the trial court to Birabar Mania (A5), Babaji Mania (A6), Bhira Behera Baba Tanti (A7) and Madha Tanti Madhabananda Parmanik (A11) under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code is upheld.	None
On proof of the offence punishable under Section 304 Part II read with Section 34 IPC, the aforesaid accused persons are sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years.	None
Both the sentences shall run concurrently.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Though it was found that the offence of gang rape was committed in a violent manner and that the offenders must be having the knowledge that it was likely that by their action the victim would die, the accused were not convicted of the offence of culpable homicide amounting to murder.	None
26.2	None
Similarly, in State, Govt of NCT of Delhi vs. Sunil and Another (2001) 1 SCC 652 , a girl of 4 years of age was raped by two accused and she lost her life as a result of injuries sustained during sexual assault.	None
A bench of two Judges of this Court observed Thus on consideration of the entire evidence in this case we have no doubt that the trial court had come to the correct conclusion that the two respondents were the rapists who subjected Anuradha to such savage ravishment.	None
The Division Bench of the High Court has grossly erred in interfering with such a correct conclusion made by the trial court as the reasons adopted by the High Court for such interference are very tenuous.	None
Nonetheless, it is difficult to enter upon a finding that the respondents are equally guilty of murder of Anuradha.	None
In the opinion of PW 1 doctor the child died due to intracranial damage consequent upon surface force impact to the head.	None
The said opinion was made with reference to the subdural haematoma which resulted in subarachnoid haemorrhage.	None
Such a consequence happened during the course of the violent ravishment committed by either both or by one of the rapists without possibly having any intention or even knowledge that their action would produce any such injury.	None
Even so, the rapists cannot disclaim knowledge that the acts done by them on a little infant of such a tender age were likely to cause its death.	None
Hence they cannot escape conviction from the offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder.	None
In the result, we set aside the impugned judgment of the High Court.	None
We restore the conviction passed by the trial court under Sections 376 and 377 read with Section 34 IPC.	None
The trial court awarded the maximum sentence to the respondents under the said counts i.e. imprisonment for life.	None
The factsituation in this case does not justify any reduction of that sentence.	None
We also convict the respondents under Section 304 Part II, read with Section 34 IPC though it is unnecessary to award any sentence thereunder in view of the sentence of imprisonment for life awarded to the respondents under the other two counts.	None
26.3	None
In Amrit Singh vs. State of Punjab (2006) 12 SCC 79 , a girl of 78 years died as a result of excessive bleeding from her private parts because of sexual assault on her.	None
The accused was found guilty of offences under Sections 302 and 376 and was awarded death sentence.	None
A bench of two Judges of this Court observed The opinion of the learned trial Judge as also the High Court that the appellant being aged about 31 years and not suffering from any disease, was in a dominating position and might have got her mouth gagged cannot be held to be irrelevant.	None
Some marks of violence not only on the neck but also on her mouth were found.	None
Submission of Mr Agarwal, however, that the appellant might not have an intention to kill the deceased, thus, may have some force.	None
The death occurred not as a result of strangulation but because of excessive bleeding.	None
The deceased had bleed half a litre of blood.	None
Dr. Reshamchand Singh, PW 1 did not state that injury on the neck could have contributed to her death.	None
The death occurred, therefore, as a consequence of and not because of any specific overt act on the part of the appellant.	None
This Court commuted the sentence to life imprisonment.	None
26.4	None
A bench of two Judges of this Court relied upon the decision in State of Orissa v. Dibakar Naik (2002) 5 SCC 323 and affirmed the conviction and sentence under Sections 376 and 304 II IPC in State of AP v. T. Prasanna Kumar (2003) 1	None
ACR 627 (SC) JT 2002 (7) SC 635 .	None
26.5	None
On the other hand, in following four cases, two Judge benches of this Court affirmed the conviction and sentence under Sections 302 and 376 IPC where the victims, aged between 1 to 8 years had lost their lives as a result of injuries sustained during sexual assault on them.	None
Mohd.	None
Chaman vs. State (NCT of Delhi) (2001) 2 SCC 28 Age of the Victim 1 years ii) Ramesh Harijan vs. State of Uttar Pradesh (2012) 5 SCC 777 Age of the Victim 56 years iii) Ram Deo Prasad vs. State of Bihar (2013) 7 SCC 725	None
Age of the Victim 4 years iv) Ramesh vs. State through Inspector of Police (2014) 9 SCC 392 Age of the Victim 8 years However, there is no discussion on the point in these cases.	None
26.6	None
Recently, a three Judge bench of this Court in Dattatraya Ambo Rokade vs. The State of Maharashtra (2019) 13 SCALE 187 had an occasion to consider where a girl of 5 years was subjected to sexual assault.	None
She died as a result of injuries 1 to 5 suffered during the course of sexual assault on her.	None
The conviction of the accused inter alia under Sections 302, 376(2)(f) of IPC and under the provisions of POCSO Act was affirmed by this Court and it was observed As a mature man, over fifty years of age, the AccusedAppellant should have known that the rape of a five year old child by an adult was dangerous and could lead to such injuries, as was in all probability likely to cause death.	None
The guiding principles were summed up in State of Madhya Pradesh v. Ram Prasad (1968) 2	Reasoning
SCR 522 to the effect that even if there be no intention to cause death, if there is such callousness towards the result and the risk taken is such that it may be stated that the person knows that the act is likely to cause death or such bodily injury as is likely to cause death clause fourthly of Section 300 IPC will get attracted and that the offender must be taken to have known that he was running the risk of causing the death or such bodily injury as was likely to cause the death of the victim.	Reasoning
Same principle is discernible from the decision of this Court in Dattatraya Ambo Rokade v. State of Maharashtra (2019) 13 SCALE 187 .	Reasoning
Considering the age of the victim in the present case, the accused must have known the consequence that his sexual assault on a child of 2 years would cause death or such bodily injury as was likely to cause her death.	Reasoning
The instant matter thus comes within the parameters of clause fourthly to Section 300 IPC and the question posed at the beginning of the discussion on this issue must be answered against the Appellant.	Reasoning
The Appellant is therefore guilty of having committed the offence of culpable homicide amounting to murder.	Reasoning
It must be observed at this stage that the decisions of this Court referred to in paragraphs 26.1, 26.2 and 26.4 hereinabove failed to consider the effect of clause fourthly to Section 300 IPC.	Reasoning
Before we turn to the submissions on sentence advanced by Ms. Mathur, learned Senior Advocate, it needs to be noted that about 67 cases were dealt with by this Court in last 40 years since the decision of this Court in Bachan Singh (1980) 2 SCC 684 , where i) the alleged offences were under Sections 376 and 302 IPC and ii) the ages of the victims were 16 years or below.	Reasoning
The Cases are Table Out of these 67 cases, this Court affirmed the award of death sentence to the accused in 15 cases.	Reasoning
In three (at Sr. Nos. 26A, 33A and 41A) out of said 15 cases, the death sentence was commuted to life sentence by this Court in Review Petitions.	Reasoning
Out of remaining 12 cases, in two cases (where Review Petitions were heard in open Court in terms of law laid down in Mohd.	Reasoning
Arif alias Ashfaq vs. Registrar, Supreme Court of India (2014) 9 SCC 737 ) namely in cases at Sr. Nos. 51A and 65A, the death sentence was confirmed by this Court and the Review Petitions were dismissed.	Reasoning
Thus, as on date, the death sentence stands confirmed in 12 out of 67 cases where the principal offences allegedly committed were under Sections 376 and 302 IPC and where the victims were aged about 16 years or below.	Reasoning
Out of these 67 cases, at least in 51 cases the victims were aged below 12 years.	Reasoning
In 12 out of those 51 cases, the death sentence was initially awarded.	Reasoning
However, in 3 cases (at Sr. Nos. 26A, 33A and 41A) the death sentence was commuted to life sentence in Review.	Reasoning
In 2 out of aforesaid 67 cases (at Sr. Nos. 58 and 67), the offences were committed on 23.02.2015 and 22.05.2015 respectively i.e., after the Amendment Act received the assent of the President and was published on 02.04.2013 (but given retrospective effect from 03.02.2013).	Reasoning
The conviction was also under Section 376A of IPC and the evidence showed specific acts such as drowning the victim or throttling her.	Reasoning
In the first case, the age of the victim was 5 years while in the second case the victim was aged 13 years.	Reasoning
In the first case the sentence imposed by this Court was 25 years of imprisonment without remission while in the second, the life sentence for the remainder of the life of the accused, was imposed.	Reasoning
We now turn to the first submission advanced by Ms. Mathur, learned Senior Advocate on the issue of sentence.	Reasoning
Section 235 (2) of the Code mandates that the accused must be heard on sentence.	Reasoning
In the instant case the order of sentence was made on the same day the order of conviction was pronounced.	Reasoning
In Santa Singh v. State of Punjab (1976) 4 SCC 190 the accused was convicted and sentenced to death by one single judgment and thus a bench of two judges of this Court found that there was infraction of Section 235 (2) of the Code.	Reasoning
The sentence of death was therefore set aside and the matter was remanded to the Sessions Court.	Reasoning
Whether, for noncompliance of Section 235 (2) of the Code, the matter be remanded in the light of the decision in Santa Singh v. State of Punjab (1976) 4 SCC 190 was thereafter considered by a bench of three judges of this Court in Dagdu v. State of Maharashtra (1977) 3 SCC 68 .	Reasoning
Chandrachud, CJ. who delivered the leading judgment, observed  	None
But we are unable to read the judgment in Santa Singh as laying down that the failure on the part of the Court, which convicts an accused, to hear him on the question of sentence must necessarily entail a remand to that Court in order to afford to the accused an opportunity to be heard on the question us sentence.	Reasoning
The Court, on convicting an accused, must unquestionably hear him on the question of sentence.	Reasoning
But if, for any reason, it omits to do so and the accused makes a grievance of it in the higher court, it would be open to that Court to remedy the breach by giving a hearing to the accused on the question of sentence.	Reasoning
That opportunity has to be real and effective, which means that the accused must be permitted to adduce before the Court all the data which he desires to adduce on the question of sentence.	Reasoning
The accused may exercise that right either by instructing his counsel to make oral submissions to the Court or he may, on affidavit or otherwise, place in writing before the Court whatever he desires to place before it on the question of sentence.	Reasoning
The Court may, in appropriate cases, have to adjourn the matter in order to give to the accused sufficient time to produce the necessary data and to make his contentions on the question of sentence.	Reasoning
That, perhaps, must inevitably happen where the conviction is recorded for the first time by a higher court.	Reasoning
Goswami, J., authored a concurring opinion, the relevant part of which was quoted in B. A. Umesh v. High Court of Karnataka (2017) 4 SCC 124 .	Reasoning
In Allauddin Mian v. State of Bihar (1989) 3 SCC 5 para 10 , the order of sentence was passed on the same day the order of conviction was pronounced and a bench of two judges of this Court commuted the sentence of death to life imprisonment.	None
In Malkiat Singh v. Stat of Punjab (1991) 4 SCC 341 para 18 , a bench of three judges of this Court did not deem it appropriate to remand the matter for hearing the accused on sentence after six years and commuted the sentence of death to life imprisonment.	None
In Ajay Pandit v. State of Maharashtra (2012) 8 SCC 43 para 47 , a bench of two judges of this Court found that the opportunity afforded to the accused in terms of Section 235 (2) of the Code was purely mechanical and no genuine efforts were made to elicit any information either from the accused or from the prosecution as to whether any circumstances existed which might influence the High Court to avoid award of death sentence.	None
In B. A. Umesh v. High Court of Karnataka (2017) 4 SCC 124 , a bench of three judges of this Court considered the decisions on the point including the question whether the matter was required to be remanded to hear the accused on sentence.	None
Paragraphs 11 to 13 of the decision were as under  In Dagdu v. State of Maharashtra (1977)	None
3 SCC 68 Goswami, J. observes as under I would particularly emphasise that there is no mandatory direction for remanding any case in Santa Singh v. State of Punjab (1976) 4 SCC 190 nor is remand the inevitable recipe of Section 235(2), Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.	None
Whenever an appeal court finds that the mandate of Section 235(2) CrPC for a hearing on sentence had not been complied with, it, at once, becomes the duty of the appeal court to offer to the accused an adequate opportunity to produce before it whatever materials he chooses in whatever reasonable way possible.	None
Courts should avoid laws delay and necessarily inconsequential remands when the accused can secure full benefit of Section 235(2) CrPC even in the appeal court, in the High Court or even in this Court.	None
We have unanimously adopted this very course in these appeals.	None
In another threeJudge Bench case in Tarlok Singh v. State of Punjab (1977) 3 SCC 218 , at para 4, Krishna Iyer, J. writes In Santa Singh v. State of Punjab (1976) 4 SCC 190 this Court considering Section 235(2) CrPC held that the hearing contemplated by that subsection is not confined merely to hearing oral submissions but extends to giving an opportunity to the prosecution and the accused to place before the court facts and materials relating to the various factors bearing on the question of sentence and, if they are contested by either side, then to produce evidence for the purpose of establishing the same.	None
Of course, in that particular case this Court sent the case back to the Sessions Court for complying with Section 235(2) CrPC.	None
It may well be that in many cases sending the case back to the Sessions Court may lead to more expense, delay and prejudice to the cause of justice.	None
In such cases, it may be more appropriate for the appellate court to give an opportunity to the parties in terms of Section 235(2) to produce the materials they wish to adduce instead of going through the exercise of sending the case back to the trial court.	None
This may, in many cases, save time and help produce prompt justice.	None
In Deepak Rai v. State of Bihar (2013) 10 SCC 421 , yet another threeJudge Bench case, Dattu, J. observes in para 54 as under Herein, it is not the case of the appellants that the opportunity to be heard on the question of sentence separately as provisioned for under Section 235(2) of the Code was not provided by the courts below.	None
Further, the trial court has recorded and discussed the submissions made by the appellants and the prosecution on the said question and thereafter, rejected the possibility of awarding a punishment less harsh than the death penalty.	None
However, the High Court while confirming the sentence has recorded (State of Bihar v. Deepak Rai, 2010 SCC OnLine Pat 949) reasons though encapsulated.	None
The High Court has noticed the motive of the appellants being nonwithdrawal of the case by the informant and the ghastly manner of commission of crime whereby six innocent persons as young as 3year old were charred to death and concluded that the incident shocks the conscience of the entire society and thus deserves nothing lesser but death penalty.	None
Subsequently, the issue was again considered in Vasanta Sampat Dupare v. State of Maharashtra (2017) 6 SCC 631 and after referring to the decisions of this Court including those rendered in Allauddin Mian v. State of Bihar (1989) 3 SCC 5 para 10 , Malkiat Singh v. State of Punjab (1991) 4 SCC 341 para 18 and B. A. Umesh v. High Court of Karnataka (2017) 4 SCC 124 , a bench of three judges of this Court observed  This Court then relied on the principle laid down in Dagdu v. State of Maharashtra (1977) 3 SCC 68 which was followed subsequently by another Bench of three learned Judges in Tarlok Singh v. State of Punjab (1977) 3 SCC 218.	None
In the circumstances, merely because no separate date was given for hearing on sentence, we cannot find the entire exercise to be flawed or vitiated.	None
Since we had allowed the petitioner to place the relevant material on record in the light of the principles laid down in Dagdu v. State of Maharashtra (1977) 3 SCC 68 we will proceed to consider the material so placed on record and weigh these factors and the aggravating circumstances as found by the Court in the judgment under review.	None
Recently, in Manoj Suryavanshi vs. State of Chhattisgarh (2020) 4 SCC 451 , a bench of three Judges of this Court, after considering the relevant decisions on the point, concluded 27.2.	None
Thus, there is no absolute proposition of law that in no case there can be conviction and sentence on the same day.	None
There is no absolute proposition of law laid down by this Court in any of the decisions that if the sentence is awarded on the very same day on which the conviction was recorded, the sentencing would be vitiated.	None
Thus, merely on account of infraction of Section 235 (2) of the Code, the death sentence ought not to be commuted to life imprisonment.	None
In any case we have afforded adequate and sufficient opportunity to the Appellant to place all the relevant materials on record in the light of principle laid down in Dagdu v. State of Maharashtra (1977) 3 SCC 68 .	None
Before we deal with the second submission on sentence, it must be observed that as laid down by this Court in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra (1984) 4 SCC 116 , a case based on circumstantial evidence has to face strict scrutiny.	None
Every circumstance from which conclusion of guilt is to be drawn must be fully established the circumstances should be conclusive in nature and tendency they must form a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and such chain of circumstances must be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused and must exclude every possible hypothesis except the one sought to be proved by the prosecution.	Issue
The decision in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra (1984) 4 SCC 116 had noted the consistent view on the point including the decision of this Court in Hanumant v. State of Madhya Pradesh (1952)	None
SCR 1091 in which a bench of three judges of this Court had ruled It is well to remember that in cases where the evidence is of a circumstantial nature, the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should in the first instance be fully established, and all the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused.	None
Again, the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency and they should be such as to exclude every hypothesis but the one proposed to be proved.	None
In other words, there must be a chain of evidence so far complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and it must be such as to show that within all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.	None
Secondly, on the issue as to what should be the approach in the matter of sentence, a bench of three judges of this Court in Vadivelu Thevar v. State of Madras ((1957)	None
SCR 981	None
This was, however, not a case of death sentence.)	None
stated Lastly, it was urged that assuming that the court was inclined to act upon the testimony of the first witness and to record a conviction for murder as against the first appellant, the court should not impose the extreme penalty of law and in the state of the record as it is, the lesser punishment provided by law should be deemed to meet the ends of justice.	None
We cannot accede to this line of argument.	None
The first question which the court has to consider in a case like this, is whether the accused has been proved, to the satisfaction of the court, to have committed the crime.	None
If the court is convinced about the truth of the prosecution story, conviction has to follow.	None
The question of sentence has to be determined, not with reference to the volume or character of the evidence adduced by the prosecution in support of the prosecution case, but with reference to the fact whether there are any extenuating circumstances which can be said to mitigate the enormity of the crime.	None
If the court is satisfied that there are such mitigating circumstances, only then, it would be justified in imposing the lesser of the two sentences provided by law.	None
In other words, the nature of the proof has nothing to with the character of the punishment.	None
The nature of the proof can only bear upon the question of conviction  whether or not the accused has been proved to be guilty.	None
If the court comes to the conclusion that the guilt has been brought home to the accused, and conviction follows, the process of proof is at an end.	None
The question as to what punishment should be imposed is for the court to decide in all the circumstances of the case with particular reference to any extenuating circumstances.	None
But the nature of proof, as we have indicated, has nothing to do with the question of punishment.	None
In this case, there are no such extenuating circumstances which can be legitimately urged in support of the view that the lesser penalty under s. 302 of the Indian Penal Code, should meet the ends of justice.	None
It was a coldblooded murder.	None
The accused came for the second time, determined to see that their victim did not possibly escape the assassins hands.	None
(Emphasis added)	None
It was laid down that the question of sentence must be determined not with reference to the volume or character of the evidence on record but with reference to the circumstances which mitigate the enormity of the crime and that the nature of proof can have bearing upon the question of sentence and not with the question of punishment.	None
We may now consider some of the cases where death penalty was imposed when conviction was based on circumstantial evidence.	None
Jumman Khan vs. State of U.P. and Another (1991) 1 SCC 752 while dismissing Writ Petition of a death convict this Court noted in para 4 the earlier order passed by a bench of two judges confirming the death sentence.	None
Feeling aggrieved by the judgment of the High Court, the petitioner filed S.L.P. (Criminal) No. 558 of 1986.	None
This Court by its order dated March 20, 1986 dismissed the SLP observing thus	None
Although the conviction of the petitioner under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 rests on circumstantial evidence, the circumstantial evidence against the petitioner leads to no other inference except that of his guilt and excludes every hypothesis of his innocence.	None
Apart from the circumstances brought out by the prosecution, each one of which has been proved, there is no extrajudicial confession which lends support to the prosecution case that the child had been raped by the petitioner and thereafter strangulated to death.	None
Failure to impose a death sentence in such grave cases where it is a crime against the society particularly in cases of murders committed with extreme brutality will bring to naught the sentence of death provided by Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.	None
It is the duty of the court to impose a proper punishment depending upon the degree of criminality and desirability to impose such punishment.	None
The only punishment which the appellant deserves for having committed the reprehensible and gruesome murder of the innocent child to satisfy his lust, is nothing but death as a measure of social necessity and also as a means of deterring other potential offenders.	None
The sentence of death is confirmed.	None
Amrutlal Someshwar Joshi vs. State of Maharashtra (I) (1994) 6 SCC 186  Learned counsel for the appellant further submitted that the case rests on the circumstantial evidence and the quality of the evidence adduced is not of that high order and therefore it is not safe to impose death sentence.	None
In this context he relied on a judgment of this Court in Shankar v. State of T.N. (1994) 4 SCC 478	None
We have gone through that judgment and it is only indicated there that the quality of evidence also would be a factor to be taken into consideration.	None
The circumstantial evidence in this case cannot at all be said to be qualitatively inferior in any manner.	None
It is wellsettled that if there is clinching and reliable circumstantial evidence, then that would be the best evidence to be safely relied upon.	None
As observed in Bachan Singh v. State of Punjab (1980) 2 SCC 684 , there may be many circumstances justifying the passing of the lighter sentence as there are countervailing circumstances of aggravation warranting imposition of death sentence.	None
In Machhi Singh v. State of Punjab (1983) 3 SCC 470 , a Bench of three Judges of this Court having noted the principles laid down in Bachan Singh case (1980) 2 SCC 684 regarding the formula of rarest of rare cases for imposing death sentence, observed that the guidelines indicated in Bachan Singh case8 will have to be culled out and applied to the facts of each individual case where the question of imposing of death sentence arises.	None
It was further observed as under (SCC p. 489, para 40)	None
If upon taking an overall global view of all the circumstances in the light of the aforesaid proposition and taking into account the answers to the questions posed hereinabove, the circumstances of the case are such that death sentence is warranted, the court would proceed to do so.	None
Likewise in Allauddin Mian v. State of Bihar (1989) 3 SCC 5 para 10, the same view has been reiterated thus (SCC p. 22, para 12)	None
However, in order that the sentences may be properly graded to fit the degree of gravity of each case, it is necessary that the maximum sentence prescribed by law should, as observed in Bachan Singh case (1980) 2 SCC 684 , be reserved for the rarest of rare cases which are of an exceptional nature.	None
Sentences of severity are imposed to reflect the seriousness of the crime, to promote respect for the law, to provide just punishment for the offence, to afford adequate deterrent to criminal conduct and to protect the community from further similar conduct.	None
It serves a threefold purpose (i) punitive (ii) deterrent and (iii) protective.	None
That is why this Court in Bachan Singh case (1980) 2 SCC 684 observed that when the question of choice of sentence is under consideration the Court must not only look to the crime and the victim but also the circumstances of the criminal and the impact of the crime on the community.	None
Unless the nature of the crime and the circumstances of the offender reveal that the criminal is a menace to the society and the sentence of life imprisonment would be altogether inadequate, the court should ordinarily impose the lesser punishment and not the extreme punishment of death which should be reserved for exceptional cases only.	None
Bearing these principles in mind and after having given our anxious consideration, we are of the firm opinion in view of the above circumstances that the case of the appellant comes within the category of rarest of rare cases and the two courts below have rightly awarded the death sentence.	None
(Emphasis supplied) Kamta Tiwari vs. State of M.P. (1996) 6 SCC 250 Molai and Another vs. State of M.P. (1999) 9 SCC 581 Shivaji alias Dadya Shankar Alhat vs. State of Maharashtra (2008) 15 SCC 269 while affirming the conviction and sentence of death for offences under Sections 376 and 302 IPC it was observed The plea that in a case of circumstantial evidence death should not be awarded is without any logic.	Reasoning
If the circumstantial evidence is found to be of unimpeachable character in establishing the guilt of the accused, that forms the foundation for conviction.	None
That has nothing to do with the question of sentence as has been observed by this Court in various cases while awarding death sentence.	None
The mitigating circumstances and the aggravating circumstances have to be balanced.	None
In the balance sheet of such circumstances, the fact that the case rests on circumstantial evidence has no role to play.	None
In fact in most of the cases where death sentences are awarded for rape and murder and the like, there is practically no scope for having an eyewitness.	None
They are not committed in the public view.	None
But the very nature of things in such cases, the available evidence is circumstantial evidence.	None
If the said evidence has been found to be credible, cogent and trustworthy for the purpose of recording conviction, to treat that evidence as a mitigating circumstance, would amount to consideration of an irrelevant aspect.	None
The plea of the learned amicus curiae that the conviction is based on circumstantial evidence and, therefore, the death sentence should not be awarded is clearly unsustainable.	None
(emphasis supplied) vi) Vasanta Sampat Dupare v. State of Maharashtra 2015 Cr.	None
L.J. 774 (2015) 1 SCC 253	None
On a critical analysis of the evidence on record, we are convinced that the circumstances that have been clearly established are that the appellant was seen in the courtyard where the minor girl and other children were playing that the appellant was seen taking the deceased on his bicycle that he had gone to the grocery shop owned by PW 6 to buy Minto fresh chocolate along with her that the accused had told PW 2 that the child was the daughter of his friend and he was going to TekdiWadi along with the girl that the appellant had led to the discovery of the dead body of the deceased, the place where he had washed his clothes and at his instance the stones smeared with blood were recovered that the medical report clearly indicates about the injuries sustained by the deceased on her body that the injuries sustained on the private parts have been stated by the doctor to have been caused by forcible sexual intercourse that the stones that were seized were smeared with blood and the medical evidence corroborates the fact that injuries could have been caused by battering with stones that the chemical analysis report shows that the blood group on the stones matches with the blood group found on the clothes of the appellant that the appellant has not offered any explanation with regard to the recovery made at his instance and that nothing has been stated in his examination under Section 313 CrPC that there was any justifiable reason to implicate him in the crime in question.	None
Thus, we find that each of the incriminating circumstances has been clearly established and the chain of circumstances are conclusive in nature to exclude any kind of hypothesis, but the one proposed to be proved, and lead to a definite conclusion that the crime was committed by the accused.	None
Therefore, we have no hesitation in affirming the judgment of conviction rendered by the learned trial Judge and affirmed by the High Court.	None
(Emphasis supplied) vii) Manoharan v. State (2019) 7 SCC 716 23.	None
The entire chain of events has been made out and despite this being a case of circumstantial evidence, the prosecution has clearly proved its case beyond reasonable doubt.	None
The courts below are right in convicting the appellant of rape and murder.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The decisions at Sl. Nos.(iv), (vi) and (vii) were by benches of three Judges and dealt with cases where the convictions were inter alia under Sections 302, 376 IPC and the victims were aged 16 years or below while the others were by benches of two Judges.	None
However, there is a definite line of cases, where thoughts have been expressed that in cases of conviction based on circumstantial evidence, the death sentence should not normally be imposed.	None
Some such cases are Aloke Nath Dutta v. State of West Bengal (2007) 12 SCC 230  	None
There is no eyewitness to the occurrence.	None
Nobody has noticed any suspicious conduct on the part of the appellants indicating their role in committing murder or disposing of the dead body.	None
While dealing with a case of grave nature like the present one, there is always a danger that conjectures and suspicion may take the place of legal truth.	None
This Court has laid down guidelines from time to time in regard to a finding of guilt solely on the basis of circumstantial evidence in a number of cases. . .	None
Bishnu Prasad Sinha v. State of Assam (2007) 11 SCC 467 para 55 The question which remains is as to what punishment should be awarded.	None
Ordinarily, this Court, having regard to the nature of the offence, would not have differed with the opinion of the learned Sessions Judge as also the High Court in this behalf, but it must be borne in mind that the appellants are convicted only on the basis of the circumstantial evidence.	None
There are authorities for the proposition that if the evidence is proved by circumstantial evidence, ordinarily, death penalty would not be awarded.	None
Moreover, Appellant 1 showed his remorse and repentance even in his statement under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	None
He accepted his guilt.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Swamy Shraddananda (2) v. State of Karnataka (2008) 13 SCC 767	None
While considering the decision of this Court in Bachan Singh (1980) 2 SCC 684 , it was observed Arguing against standardisation of cases for the purpose of death sentence the Court observed that even within a single category offence there are infinite, unpredictable and unforeseeable variations.	None
No two cases are exactly identical.	None
There are countless permutations and combinations which are beyond the anticipatory capacity of the human calculus.	None
The Court further observed that standardisation of the sentencing process tends to sacrifice justice at the altar of blind uniformity.	None
That is not the end of the matter.	None
Coupled with the deficiency of the criminal justice system is the lack of consistency in the sentencing process even by this Court.	None
It is noted above that Bachan Singh (1980) 2 SCC 684 laid down the principle of the rarest of rare cases.	None
Machhi Singh (1983) 3 SCC 470 for practical application crystallised the principle into five definite categories of cases of murder and in doing so also considerably enlarged the scope for imposing death penalty.	None
But the unfortunate reality is that in later decisions neither the rarest of rare cases principle nor the Machhi Singh (1983) 3 SCC 470 categories were followed uniformly and consistently.	None
In Aloke Nath Dutta v. State of W.B. (2007) 12 SCC 230 Sinha, J. gave some very good illustrations from a number of recent decisions in which on similar facts this Court took contrary views on giving death penalty to the convict.	None
He finally observed that courts in the matter of sentencing act differently although the fact situation may appear to be somewhat similar and further it is evident that different Benches had taken different view in the matter.	None
Katju, J. in his order passed in this appeal said that he did not agree with the decision in Aloke Nath Dutta (2007) 12 SCC 230 in that it held that death sentence was not to be awarded in a case of circumstantial evidence.	None
Katju, J. may be right that there cannot be an absolute rule excluding death sentence in all cases of circumstantial evidence (though in Aloke Nath Dutta (2007) 12 SCC 230 it is said normally and not as an absolute rule).	None
But there is no denying the illustrations cited by Sinha, J. which are a matter of fact.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
Santosh Kumar Satishbhushan Bariyar v. State of Maharashtra (2009) 6 SCC 498.	Reasoning
Relying upon the testimony of an approver, the sentence of death was awarded.	None
The decision of this Court in Mohan and ors.	None
vs. State of Tamil Nadu((1998) 5 SCC 336 case of kidnapping of a minor boy of 10 years for ransom and murder.	None
Award of death sentence to appellants Mohan and Gopi was affirmed by this Court.)	None
was distinguished thus Mr Adsure has placed strong reliance on a decision of this Court in Mohan v. State of T.N.((1998) 5 SCC 336 case of kidnapping of a minor boy of 10 years for ransom and murder.	None
Award of death sentence to appellants Mohan and Gopi was affirmed by this Court.)	None
to contend that the manner in which the murder was committed itself points out that all the accused deserved death penalty.	None
In our opinion the facts of that case are clearly distinguishable from the present one.	None
That case involved the murder of a minor.	None
It clearly is not applicable to the present case.	None
Moreover, the Court in that case too recognised that proper and due regard must be given to the mitigating circumstances in every case.	None
After considering the mitigating circumstances it was observed The entire prosecution case hinges on the evidence of the approver.	None
For the purpose of imposing death penalty, that factor may have to be kept in mind.	None
We will assume that in Swamy Shraddananda (2) (2008) 13 SCC 767 , this Court did not lay down a firm law that in a case involving circumstantial evidence, imposition of death penalty would not be permissible.	Reasoning
But, even in relation thereto the question which would arise would be whether in arriving at a conclusion some surmises, some hypothesis would be necessary in regard to the manner in which the offence was committed as contradistinguished from a case where the manner of occurrence had no role to play.	None
Even where sentence of death is to be imposed on the basis of the circumstantial evidence, the circumstantial evidence must be such which leads to an exceptional case.	Reasoning
We must, however, add that in a case of this nature where the entire prosecution case revolves round the statement of an approver or is dependent upon the circumstantial evidence, the prudence doctrine should be invoked.	None
For the aforementioned purpose, at the stage of sentencing evaluation of evidence would not be permissible, the courts not only have to solely depend upon the findings arrived at for the purpose of recording a judgment of conviction, but also consider the matter keeping in view the evidences which have been brought on record on behalf of the parties and in particular the accused for imposition of a lesser punishment.	None
A statement of approver in regard to the manner in which crime has been committed visvis the role played by the accused, on the one hand, and that of the approver, on the other, must be tested on the touchstone of the prudence doctrine.	None
(emphasis supplied) Purna Chandra Kusal v. State of Orissa (2011) 15 SCC 352 para 7.	None
We are, however, of the opinion that the death sentence in the present case was not called for.	None
The appellant was a labourer living in a basti alongside the railway line and was, at the time of the incident, about 30 years of age.	None
We also see that the entire evidence is circumstantial in nature.	None
Concededly, there is no inflexible rule that a death sentence cannot be awarded in a case resting on circumstantial evidence but courts are as a matter of prudence, hesitant in awarding this sentence, in such a situation.	None
It is true that the crime was indeed a heinous one as the victim was only five years of age and the daughter of PW 5 who was a neighbour of the appellant.	None
On a cumulative assessment of the facts, we are of the opinion that the death sentence should be commuted into one for life.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Neel Kumar v. The State of Haryana (2012) 5 SCC 766 Sushil Sharma vs. State (NCT of Delhi) (2014) 4 SCC 317	None
Mahesh Dhanaji Shinde vs. State of Maharashtra (2014) 4 SCC 292 Kalu Khan v. State of Rajasthan (2015) 16 SCC 492 paras 16, 23 and 31 In respect of award of death sentence in cases where sole basis for conviction is circumstantial evidence, this Court in Swamy Shraddananda v. State of Karnataka (2007) 12 SCC 288 para 87, has acknowledged that such cases have far greater chances of turning out to be wrongful convictions, later on, in comparison to ones which are based on fitter sources of proof.	Reasoning
This Court cautioned that convictions based on seemingly conclusive circumstantial evidence should not be presumed as foolproof incidences and the fact that the same are based on circumstantial evidence must be a definite factor at the sentencing stage deliberations, considering that capital punishment is unique in its total irrevocability.	Reasoning
Further, this Court observed that any characteristic of trial, such as conviction solely resting on circumstantial evidence, which contributes to the uncertainty in the culpability calculus, must attract negative attention while deciding maximum penalty for murder.	Reasoning
This Court noticed certain decisions under the American death penalty jurisprudence as follows (Swamy Shraddananda case (2007) 12 SCC 288 para 87, SCC pp.	Reasoning
32021, paras 8890)	Reasoning
One of the older cases in this league dates back to 1874, Merritt v. State (1874)	Reasoning
52 Gs 82, where the Supreme Court of Georgia described the applicable law in Georgia as follows By the Penal Code of this State the punishment of murder shall be death, except when the conviction is founded solely on circumstantial testimony.	Reasoning
When the conviction is had solely on circumstantial testimony, then it is discretionary with the Presiding Judge to impose the death penalty or to sentence the defendant to imprisonment in the penitentiary for life, unless the jury shall recommend that the defendant be imprisoned in the penitentiary for life in that case the Presiding Judge has no discretion, but is bound to commute the punishment from death to imprisonment for life in the penitentiary.	Reasoning
Later case of Jackson v. State 74	Reasoning
Ala 26 (1883), Ala at pp. 2930 followed the aforementioned case.	Reasoning
Also see S.M. Phillipps, Famous Cases of Circumstantial Evidence with an Introduction on the Theory of Presumptive Proof, 5052 (1875).	Reasoning
In United States v. Quinones 205 F Supp.	Reasoning
2d 256 (SDNY 2002), F Supp 2d at p. 267	Reasoning
the Court remarked Many States that allow the death penalty permit a conviction based solely on circumstantial evidence only if such evidence excludes to a moral certainty every other reasonable inference except guilt.	Reasoning
In Santosh Kumar Satishbhushan Bariyar v. State of Maharashtra (2009) 6 SCC 498 , all the accused persons including the appellant were unemployed young men in search of employment.	Reasoning
In execution of a plan proposed by the appellant and accepted by them, they kidnapped their friend with the motive of procuring ransom from his family but later murdered him and after cutting his body into pieces disposed of the same at different places.	Reasoning
One of the accused persons turned approver and the prosecution case was based entirely on his evidence.	Reasoning
The trial court awarded death sentence to the appellant.	Reasoning
The High Court confirmed the death sentence.	Reasoning
In appeal, this Court observed that punishment cannot be determined on grounds of proportionality alone.	Reasoning
This Court observed that though there was nothing to show that the appellant could not be reformed and rehabilitated and the manner and method of disposal of the dead body of the deceased reflected most foul and despicable case of murder, mere mode of disposal of the dead body may not by itself be made the ground for inclusion of a case in the rarest of rare category for the purpose of imposition of death sentence.	Reasoning
Other factors require to be considered along with the aforesaid.	Reasoning
This Court was of the view that the fact that the prosecution case rested on the evidence of the approver, will have to be kept in mind.	Reasoning
Further, that where the death sentence is to be imposed on the basis of circumstantial evidence, the circumstantial evidence must be such which leads to an exceptional case.	Reasoning
It was further observed that the discretion given to the court in such cases assumes onerous importance and its exercise becomes extremely difficult because of the irrevocable character of death penalty.	Reasoning
Where two views ordinarily could be taken, imposition of death sentence would not be appropriate.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, the death sentence was converted to life imprisonment.	None
In Mahesh Dhanaji Shinde v. State of Maharashtra (2014) 4 SCC 292 , the conviction of the appellantaccused was upheld keeping in view that the circumstantial evidence pointed only in the direction of their guilt given that the modus operandi of the crime, homicidal death, identity of 9 of 10 victims, last seen theory and other incriminating circumstances were proved.	Reasoning
However, the Court has thought it fit to commute the sentence of death to imprisonment for life considering the age, socioeconomic conditions, custodial behaviour of the appellantaccused persons and that the case was entirely based on circumstantial evidence In the instant case, admittedly the entire web of evidence is circumstantial.	Reasoning
The appellantaccuseds culpability rests on various independent evidence, such as, him being last seen with the deceased before she went missing the extrajudicial confession of his coaccused before PW 1 and the village members corroborative testimonies of the said village members to the extrajudicial confession and recovery of the deceaseds body coupled with the medical evidence which when joined together paint him in the blood of the deceased.	Reasoning
While the said evidence proves the guilt of the appellantaccused and makes this a fit case for conviction, it does not sufficiently convince the judicial mind to entirely foreclose the option of a sentence lesser than the death penalty.	Reasoning
Even though there are no missing links in the chain, the evidence also does not sufficiently provide any direct indicia whereby irrefutable conclusions can be drawn with regard to the nexus between the crime and the criminal.	Reasoning
Undoubtedly, the aggravating circumstances reflected through the nature of the crime and young age of the victim make the crime socially abhorrent and demand harsh punishment.	Reasoning
However, there exist the circumstances such as there being no criminal antecedents of the appellantaccused and the entire case having been rested on circumstantial evidence including the extrajudicial confession of a coaccused.	Reasoning
These factors impregnate the balance of circumstances and introduce uncertainty in the culpability calculus and thus, persuade us that death penalty is not an inescapable conclusion in the instant case.	Reasoning
We are inclined to conclude that in the present scenario an alternate to the death penalty, that is, imprisonment for life would be appropriate punishment in the present circumstances.	Reasoning
In our considered view, in the impugned judgment and order, the High Court has rightly noticed that life and death are acts of the divine and the divines authority has been delegated to the human courts of law to be only exercised in exceptional circumstances with utmost caution.	Reasoning
Further, that the first and foremost effort of the Court should be to continue the life till its natural end and the delegated divine authority should be exercised only after arriving at a conclusion that no other punishment but for death will serve the ends of justice.	Reasoning
We have critically appreciated the entire evidence in its minutest detail and are of the considered opinion that the present case does not warrant award of the extreme sentence of death to the appellantaccused and the sentence of life imprisonment would be adequate and meet the ends of justice.	Reasoning
We are of the opinion that the four main objectives which the State intends to achieve, namely, deterrence, prevention, retribution and reformation can be achieved by sentencing the appellantaccused for life.	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied)	None
Nand Kishore v. State of Madhya Pradesh (2019) 16 SCC 278.	Reasoning
The learned counsel appearing for the State has placed reliance on the judgment of this Court in Mukesh v. State (NCT of Delhi) (2017) 6 SCC 1 known as Nirbhaya case in support of her case and submitted that applying the ratio laid down in the aforesaid judgment, the case falls in the rarest of rare cases attracting death penalty.	None
With reference to abovesaid arguments of the learned counsel for the State, it is to be noticed that the case of Mukesh (2017) 6 SCC 1 is distinguishable on the facts from the case on hand.	None
It is to be noticed that Mukesh (2017) 6 SCC 1 is a case of gang rape and murder of the victim and an attempt to murder of the male victim.	None
It was the specific case of the prosecution that the crimes were carried out pursuant to a conspiracy and the accused were convicted under Section 120B IPC apart from other offences.	None
Further, as a fact, it was found in the aforesaid case that the accused Mukesh had been involved in other criminal activity on the same night.	None
Further, it is also to be noticed that in the aforesaid case, there was a dying declaration, eyewitness to the incident, etc.	None
So far as the present case is concerned, it solely rests on circumstantial evidence.	None
It is the specific case of the appellant that he was denied the proper legal assistance in the matter and he is a manhole worker.	None
The appellant was aged about 50 years.	None
Further, in this case there is no finding recorded by the courts below to the effect that there is no possibility of reformation of the appellant.	None
We are of the view that the reasons assigned by the trial court as confirmed by the High Court, do not constitute special reasons within the meaning of Section 354(3) CrPC to impose death penalty on the accused.	None
(emphasis supplied) Md.	None
Mannan v. State of Bihar (2019) 16 SCC 584.	None
In this case, the conviction of the petitioner is based on circumstantial evidence and the alleged extrajudicial confession made by the petitioner to the police in course of investigation, on the basis of which certain recoveries were made.	None
There is no forensic evidence against the petitioner.	None
It would, in our view, be unsafe to uphold the imposition of death sentence on the petitioner.	None
In this case, an eightyearold innocent girl fell prey to the carnal desire and lust of the petitioner.	None
It is not known whether there was any premeditation on the part of the petitioner to murder the victim.	None
The circumstances in which he murdered the victim are also not known.	None
The conviction is based on circumstantial evidence and extrajudicial confession made by the petitioner to the police in course of investigation.	None
There can be no doubt that the crime is abhorrent, but it is doubtful as to whether the crime committed by the petitioner can be termed as rarest of the rare.	None
(emphasis supplied) Dileep Bankar v. State of M.P. (2019) 3 JabLJ 401 (2019) 5 RCR(Criminal) 922	None
We are not inclined to interfere with the conviction part.	None
However, with respect to sentence, in the facts and circumstances of the case, we are inclined to set aside the capital sentence.	None
It was stated by learned Counsel for the Appellant that the Appellant has become the victim of his own past and there is only circumstantial evidence against him.	None
We deem it proper to impose the sentence of total 25 years of imprisonment.	None
However, death sentence is set aside.	None
(emphasis supplied) Out of these 12 cases, cases at Sl.	None
Nos. (iii), (vii), (viii), (ix), (x), (xi) and (xii) were decided by benches of three Judges of this Court, while the others were decided by benches of two Judges.	None
An important case for study is the decision of this Court in Rameshbhai Chandubhai Rathod vs. State of Gujarat (2009) 5 SCC 740 , in which the accused was found guilty of offences punishable under Sections 363, 366, 376, 397 and 302 IPC.	None
The victim was a student of 4th standard.	None
The accused was awarded death sentence.	None
The case was based on the circumstantial evidence and Pasayat, J. observed The plea that in a case of circumstantial evidence death should not be awarded is without any logic.	None
If the circumstantial evidence is found to be of unimpeachable character in establishing the guilt of the accused, that forms the foundation for conviction.	None
That has nothing to do with the question of sentence as has been observed by this Court in various cases while awarding death sentence.	None
The mitigating circumstances and the aggravating circumstances have to be balanced.	None
In the balance sheet of such circumstances, the fact that the case rests on circumstantial evidence has no role to play.	None
In fact in most of the cases where death sentence is awarded for rape and murder and the like, there is practically no scope for having an eyewitness.	None
They are not committed in the public view.	None
By the very nature of things in such cases, the available evidence is circumstantial evidence.	None
If the said evidence has been found to be credible, cogent and trustworthy for the purpose of recording conviction, to treat that evidence as a mitigating circumstance, would amount to consideration of an irrelevant aspect.	None
The plea of learned counsel for the appellant that the conviction is based on circumstantial evidence and, therefore, the death sentence should not be awarded is clearly unsustainable.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Having found the appellant guilty of the concerned offences, Pasayat, J. affirmed the award of death sentence.	None
Ganguly, J. agreed with Pasayat, J. on the issue of conviction but on the question of sentence he was of the view that the proper sentence was imprisonment for life.	None
Ganguly, J. found that the reliance by the High Court on the decision in Dhananjoy Chatterjee vs. State of W.B. (1994) 2 SCC 220 , was incorrect.	None
It was stated There are vital differences in the facts of the two cases.	None
In the present case, there is no allegation that the appellant ever misbehaved with the deceased.	None
In Dhananjoy (1994) 2 SCC 220 , prior to the date of crime, there were many occasions when the victim had been teased by Dhananjoy on her way to and back from her school.	None
The latest being on 231990, three days prior to her death, when Dhananjoy had asked the deceased to accompany him to watch a movie.	None
To that the deceased protested and had told her mother about it.	None
Then her father had consulted some neighbours and thereafter, filed a written complaint to the security agency which had hired Dhananjoy and deployed in their apartment.	None
The agency had arranged for Dhananjoy to be transferred to another apartment.	None
Thus there was a motive and a sense of revenge in the mind of Dhananjoy in committing the crime against the deceased.	None
After considering various cases, Ganguly, J. observed Keeping these principles in mind, I find that in the instant case the appellant is a young man and his age was 28 years old as per the version in the chargesheet.	None
He is married and has two daughters.	None
He has no criminal antecedents, at least none has been brought on record.	None
His behaviour in general was not objectionable and certainly not with the deceased girl prior to the incident.	None
The unfortunate incident is possibly the first crime committed by the appellant.	None
He is not otherwise a criminal.	None
Such a person is not a threat to the society.	None
His entire life is ahead of him.	None
I agree with His Lordship that the appellant has to be convicted on other charges.	None
However, his conviction does not automatically lead to his death sentence.	None
In my humble opinion instead of death sentence a sentence of rigorous imprisonment for life will serve the ends of justice.	None
With the aforesaid modification of the sentence the appeal is dismissed to the extent indicated above.	None
The matter was, therefore, referred to a bench of three Judges Rameshbhai Chandubhai Rathod (2) vs. State of Gujarat (2011) 2 SCC 764 paras 8 and 10 which did not, in terms, disagree with the view taken by Pasayat, J. nor was there any observation to the contrary on the issue of appreciation of a case based on circumstantial evidence in capital punishment matters.	None
But the bench adopted the view taken by Ganguly, J. and stated as under Both the Honble Judges have relied extensively on Dhananjoy Chatterjee case (1994) 2 SCC 220.	None
In this case the death sentence had been awarded by the trial court on similar facts and confirmed by the Calcutta High Court and the appeal too dismissed by this Court leading to the execution of the accused.	None
Ganguly, J. has, however, drawn a distinction on the facts of that case and the present one and held that as the appellant was a young man, only 27 years of age, it was obligatory on the trial court to have given a finding as to a possible rehabilitation and reformation and the possibility that he could still become a useful member of society in case he was given a chance to do so.	None
We are, therefore, of the opinion that in the light of the findings recorded by Ganguly, J. it would not be proper to maintain the death sentence on the appellant.	None
At the same time the gravity of the offence, the behaviour of the appellant and the fear and concern such incidents generate in ordered society, cannot be ignored.	None
We, therefore, feel that a via media ought to be adopted in the light of the judgments of this Court in Ramraj v. State of Chhattisgarh (2010) 1 SCC 573 and Mulla v. State of U.P. (2010) 3 SCC 508	None
In these two cases, this Court has held that the term imprisonment for life which is found in Section 302 IPC, would mean imprisonment for the natural life of the convict subject to the powers of the President and the Governor under Articles 72 and 161 of the Constitution of India or of the State Government under Section 433A of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	None
It is also required be noted here that there was disagreement between two Judges who heard Swamy Sharaddananda vs. State of Karnataka75 .	None
Sinha, J. was of the view that the accused be given life sentence while Katju, J. affirmed the award of death sentence.	None
The matter was therefore referred to a bench of three Judges whose decision is reported as Swamy Shraddananda (2) (2008) 13 SCC 767 which found the observations of Katju, J. that there cannot be an absolute rule excluding death sentence in all cases of circumstantial evidence to be correct.	Reasoning
The bench however formulated a special category of sentence in paragraphs 91 to 93 of its decision.	None
However, the subsequent decision in Kalu Khan (2015) 16 SCC 492 paras 16, 23 and 31 quoted with approval paragraphs 88 to 90 from the opinion of Sinha, J when the matter was heard by two Judges of this Court in Swamy Shraddananda (2007) 12 SCC 288 para 87 .	None
These cases discussed in preceding paragraphs show that though it is accepted that the observations in Swamy Shraddananda (2) (2008) 13 SCC 767 did not lay down any firm principle that in a case involving circumstantial evidence, imposition of death penalty would not be permissible, a definite line of thought that where the sentence of death is to be imposed on the basis of circumstantial evidence, the circumstantial evidence must be such which leads to an exceptional case was accepted by a bench of three Judges of this Court in Kalu Khan (2015) 16 SCC 492 paras 16, 23 and 31 .	Reasoning
As a matter of fact, it accepted the caution expressed by Sinha J. in Swamy Shraddananda vs. State of Karnataka (2007) 12 SCC 288 para 87 and the conclusions in Santosh Kumar Satishbhushan Bariyar (2009) 6 SCC 498 to restate the principles with clarity in its decision.	Reasoning
It can therefore be summed up  a) it is not as if imposition of death penalty is impermissible to be awarded in circumstantial evidence cases and b) if the circumstantial evidence is of an unimpeachable character in establishing the guilt of the accused and leads to an exceptional case or the evidence sufficiently convinces the judicial mind that the option of a sentence lesser than death penalty is foreclosed, the death penalty can be imposed.	None
It must therefore be held that merely because the instant case is based on circumstantial evidence there is no reason to commute the death sentence.	None
However, the matter must be considered in the light of the aforestated principles and see whether the circumstantial evidence is of unimpeachable character and the option of a lesser sentence is foreclosed.	None
Before we deal with the matter from the perspective as stated above, we must consider the submission advanced by Ms. Mathur, learned Senior Advocate with regard to residual doubt as said submission also touches upon the character of evidence.	None
The theory of residual doubt was noted for the first time by a bench of two judges of this Court in Ashok Debbarma Alias Achak Debbarma vs. State of Tripura (2014) 4 SCC 747.	None
The discussion in paragraphs 30 to 34 under the caption residual doubt was as under An accused has a profound right not to be convicted of an offence which is not established by the evidential standard of proof beyond reasonable doubt.	None
This Court in Krishnan v. State (2003) 7 SCC 56 2003 SCC (Cri) 1577 , held that the doubts would be called reasonable if they are free from a zest for abstract speculation.	None
Law cannot afford any favourite other than truth.	None
To constitute reasonable doubt, it must be free from an overemotional response.	None
Doubts must be actual and substantial doubts as to the guilt of the accused persons arising from the evidence, or from the lack of it, as opposed to mere vague apprehensions.	None
A reasonable doubt is not an imaginary, trivial or a merely possible doubt, but a fair doubt based upon reason and common sense.	None
It must grow out of the evidence in the case.	None
In Ramakant Rai v. Madan Rai (2003) 12 SCC 395 2004 SCC (Cri) Supp 445, the above principle has been reiterated.	None
In Commonwealth v. Webster (1850) 5 Cush 295 52 Am Dec 711 (Mass Sup Ct) at p. 320, Massachusetts Court, as early as in 1850, has explained the expression reasonable doubt as follows Reasonable doubt is not a mere possible doubt because everything relating to human affairs, and depending on moral evidence, is open to some possible or imaginary doubt.	None
It is that state of the case which, after the entire comparison and consideration of all the evidence, leaves the minds of the jurors in that condition that they cannot say they feel an abiding conviction.	None
In our criminal justice system, for recording guilt of the accused, it is not necessary that the prosecution should prove the case with absolute or mathematical certainty, but only beyond reasonable doubt.	None
Criminal courts, while examining whether any doubt is beyond reasonable doubt, may carry in their mind, some residual doubt, even though the courts are convinced of the accused persons guilt beyond reasonable doubt.	None
For instance, in the instant case, it was pointed out that, according to the prosecution, 3035 persons armed with weapons such as firearms, dao, lathi, etc., set fire to the houses of the villagers and opened fire which resulted in the death of 15 persons, but only eleven persons were chargesheeted and, out of which, charges were framed only against five accused persons.	None
Even out of those five persons, three were acquitted, leaving the appellant and another, who is absconding.	None
The court, in such circumstances, could have entertained a residual doubt as to whether the appellant alone had committed the entire crime, which is a mitigating circumstance to be taken note of by the court, at least when the court is considering the question whether the case falls under the rarest of the rare category.	None
Residual doubt is a mitigating circumstance, sometimes used and urged before the jury in the United States and, generally, not found favour by the various courts in the United States.	None
In Franklin v. Lynaugh 101 L Ed 2d 155 487 US 164 (1988), while dealing with the death sentence, the Court held as follows The petitioner also contends that the sentencing procedures followed in his case prevented the jury from considering, in mitigation of sentence, any residual doubts it might have had about his guilt.	None
The petitioner uses the phrase residual doubts to refer to doubts that may have lingered in the minds of jurors who were convinced of his guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, but who were not absolutely certain of his guilt.	None
Brief for Petitioner 14.	None
The plurality and dissent reject the petitioners residual doubt claim because they conclude that the special verdict questions did not prevent the jury from giving mitigating effect to its residual doubts about the petitioners guilt.	None
See ante at Franklin, US p. 175 post at Franklin, US p. 189.	None
This conclusion is open to question, however.	None
Although the jury was permitted to consider evidence presented at the guilt phase in the course of answering the special verdict questions, the jury was specifically instructed to decide whether the evidence supported affirmative answers to the special questions beyond a reasonable doubt.	None
App. 15 (emphasis added).	None
Because of this instruction, the jury might not have thought that, in sentencing the petitioner, it was free to demand proof of his guilt beyond all doubt.	None
In California v. Brown 93 L Ed 2d 934 479 US 538 (1987) and other cases, the US courts took the view, residual doubt is not a fact about the defendant or the circumstances of the crime, but a lingering uncertainty about facts, a state of mind that exists somewhere between beyond a reasonable doubt and absolute certainty.	None
The petitioners residual doubt claim is that the States must permit capital sentencing bodies to demand proof of guilt to an absolute certainty before imposing the death sentence.	None
Nothing in our cases mandates the imposition of this heightened burden of proof at capital sentencing.	None
We also, in this country, as already indicated, expect the prosecution to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt, but not with absolute certainty.	None
But, in between reasonable doubt and absolute certainty, a decisionmakers mind may wander, possibly in a given case he may go for absolute certainty so as to award death sentence, short of that he may go for beyond reasonable doubt.	None
Suffice it to say, so far as the present case is concerned, we entertained a lingering doubt as to whether the appellant alone could have executed the crime singlehandedly, especially when the prosecution itself says that it was the handiwork of a large group of people.	None
If that be so, in our view, the crime perpetrated by a group of people in an extremely brutal, grotesque and dastardly manner, could not have been thrown upon the appellant alone without chargesheeting other group of persons numbering around 35.	None
All the element test as well as the residual doubt test, in a given case, may favour the accused, as a mitigating factor.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The decision of this Court in Ashok Debbarma (2014) 4 SCC 747 was relied upon in following decisions by benches of three judges of this Court In Sudam alias Rahul Kniram Jadhav v. State of Maharashtra (2019) 9 SCC 388 the appellant was convicted of having caused the death of five persons i.e. the lady who was living with him as his wife, two children from her previous marriage and two children from the appellant.	None
The death sentence awarded to him was confirmed by this Court.	Reasoning
However, in review petition, the sentence was commuted to imprisonment for the remainder of his life sans any right to remission.	None
The discussion was as under 19.1.	None
At this juncture, it must be noted that though it may be a relevant consideration in sentencing that the evidence in a given case is circumstantial in nature, there is no bar on the award of the death sentence in cases based upon such evidence (see Swamy Shraddananda v. State of Karnataka (2007) 12 SCC 288 para 87 and Ramesh v. State of Rajasthan (2011) 3 SCC 685 ).	Reasoning
19.2.	None
In such a situation, it is up to the Court to determine whether the accused may be sentenced to death upon the strength of circumstantial evidence, given the peculiar facts and circumstances of each case, while assessing all the relevant aggravating circumstances of the crime, such as its brutality, enormity and premeditated nature, and mitigating circumstances of the accused, such as his socioeconomic background, age, extreme emotional disturbance at the time of commission of the offence, and so on.	None
19.3.	None
In this regard, it would also be pertinent to refer to the discussion in Ashok Debbarma v. State of Tripura86, where this Court elaborated upon the concept of residual doubt which simply means that in spite of being convinced of the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt, the Court may harbour lingering or residual doubts in its mind regarding such guilt.	None
This Court noted that the existence of residual doubt was a ground sometimes urged before American courts as a mitigating circumstance with respect to imposing the death sentence, and noted as follows In California v. Brown 93 L Ed 2d 934 479 US 538 (1987) and other cases, the US courts took the view, residual doubt is not a fact about the defendant or the circumstances of the crime, but a lingering uncertainty about facts, a state of mind that exists somewhere between beyond a reasonable doubt and absolute certainty.	None
The petitioners residual doubt claim is that the States must permit capital sentencing bodies to demand proof of guilt to an absolute certainty before imposing the death sentence.	None
Nothing in our cases mandates the imposition of this heightened burden of proof at capital sentencing.	None
We also, in this country, as already indicated, expect the prosecution to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt, but not with absolute certainty.	None
But, in between reasonable doubt and absolute certainty, a decisionmakers mind may wander, possibly in a given case he may go for absolute certainty so as to award death sentence, short of that he may go for beyond reasonable doubt.	None
Suffice it to say, so far as the present case is concerned, we entertained a lingering doubt as to whether the appellant alone could have executed the crime singlehandedly, especially when the prosecution itself says that it was the handiwork of a large group of people.	None
If that be so, in our view, the crime perpetrated by a group of people in an extremely brutal, grotesque and dastardly manner, could not have been thrown upon the appellant alone without chargesheeting other group of persons numbering around 35.	None
All the element test as well as the residual doubt test, in a given case, may favour the accused, as a mitigating factor.	None
19.4.	None
While the concept of residual doubt has undoubtedly not been given much attention in Indian capital sentencing jurisprudence, the fact remains that this Court has on several occasions held the quality of evidence to a higher standard for passing the irrevocable sentence of death than that which governs conviction, that is to say, it has found it unsafe to award the death penalty for convictions based on the nature of the circumstantial evidence on record.	None
In fact, this question was given some attention in a recent decision by this Bench, in Mohd.	None
Mannan v. State of Bihar (2019) 16 SCC 584 , where we found it unsafe to affirm the death penalty awarded to the accused in light of the nature of the evidence on record, though the conviction had been affirmed on the basis of circumstantial evidence.	None
Evidently, even the fact that the evidence was circumstantial in nature did not weigh very heavily on the Courts mind, let alone the strength and nature of the circumstantial evidence.	None
Be that as it may, we find that the material on record is sufficient to convince the Court of the petitioners guilt beyond reasonable doubt however, the nature of the circumstantial evidence in this case amounts to a mitigating circumstance significant enough to tilt the balance of aggravating and mitigating circumstances in the petitioners favour, keeping in mind the doctrine of prudence.	None
Moreover, it is also possible that the incorrect observations pertaining to Anitas facial injuries further led the Court to conclude in favour of imposing the death sentence on the petitioner.	None
Thus, we are of the considered opinion that there was a reasonable probability that this Court would have set aside the sentence of death in appeal, since the only surviving evidence against the petitioner herein pertains to his motive to commit the crime, the circumstance of last seen and a solitary extrajudicial confession.	None
In other words, it cannot be said that the punishment of life imprisonment is unquestionably foreclosed in the instant case, in spite of the gravity and barbarity of the offence.	None
We are thus compelled to conclude that the award of the death penalty in the instant case, based on the evidence on record, cannot be upheld.	None
At the same time, we conclude that a sentence of life imprisonment simpliciter would be inadequate in the instant case, given the gruesome nature of the offence, and the menace posed to society at large by the petitioner, as evinced by the conduct of the petitioner in jail.	None
As per the report submitted in pursuance of the order of this Court dated 31102018, it has been brought on record that the conduct of the petitioner in jail has been unsatisfactory, and that he gets aggressive and indulges in illegal activities in prison, intentionally abusing prisoners and prison staff and provoking fights with other prisoners.	None
Two FIRs have also been registered against the petitioner for abusing and threatening the Superintendent of the Nagpur Central Prison.	None
23.1.	None
As this Court has already held in a catena of decisions, by way of a via media between life imprisonment simpliciter and the death sentence, it may be appropriate to impose a restriction on the petitioners right to remission of the sentence of life imprisonment, which usually works out to 14 years in prison upon remission.	None
We may fruitfully refer to the decisions in Swamy Shraddananda (2) v. State of Karnataka (2008) 13 SCC 767 and Union of India v. V. Sriharan (2016) 7 SCC 1 (2016) 2 SCC Cri 695 , in this regard.	None
We therefore direct that the petitioner shall remain in prison for the remainder of his life.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In Ravishankar alias Baba Vishwakarma v. State of Madhya Pradesh (2019) 9 SCC 689 , the appellant was convicted under Sections 376, 302 and 376A of IPC and also under the provisions of POCSO Act for having raped and caused the murder by throttling of a 13 years old girl.	None
The death sentence awarded by the trial court was confirmed by the High Court but in appeal the death sentence was substituted by this Court with imprisonment for life with a direction that no remission to be granted and that the appellant shall remain in prison for rest of his life.	None
The relevant passages from the decision are Such imposition of a higher standard of proof for purposes of death sentencing over and above beyond reasonable doubt necessary for criminal conviction is similar to the residual doubt metric adopted by this Court in Ashok Debbarma v. State of Tripura (2014) 4 SCC 747 wherein it was noted that (SCC p. 763, para 31) In our criminal justice system, for recording guilt of the accused, it is not necessary that the prosecution should prove the case with absolute or mathematical certainty, but only beyond reasonable doubt.	None
Criminal courts, while examining whether any doubt is beyond reasonable doubt, may carry in their mind, some residual doubt, even though the courts are convinced of the accused persons guilt beyond reasonable doubt.	None
Ashok Debbarma (2014) 4 SCC 747 drew a distinction between a residual doubt, which is any remaining or lingering doubt about the defendants guilt which might remain at the sentencing stage despite satisfaction of the beyond a reasonable doubt standard during conviction, and reasonable doubts which as defined in Krishnan v. State (2003) 7 SCC 56 2003 SCC (Cri) 1577 are actual and substantive, and not merely imaginary, trivial or merely possible.	None
These residual doubts although not relevant for conviction, would tilt towards mitigating circumstance to be taken note of whilst considering whether the case falls under the rarest of rare category.	None
This theory is also recognised in other jurisdictions like the United States, where some State courts like the Supreme Court of Tennessee in State v. McKinney 74 SW 3d 291 have explained that residual doubt of guilt is a valid nonstatutory mitigating circumstance during the sentencing stage and have allowed for new evidence during sentencing proceedings related to defendants character, background history, physical condition, etc.	None
The abovecited principles have been minutely observed by us, taking into consideration the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case in hand.	None
At the outset, we would highlight that the High Court while confirming death has observed that the girl was found bleeding due to forcible sexual intercourse, which fact, however, is not supported by medical evidence.	None
However, such erroneous finding has no impact on conviction under Section 376A IPC for a bare perusal of the section shows that only the factum of death of the victim during the offence of rape is required, and such death need not be with any guilty intention or be a natural consequence of the act of rape only.	None
It is worded broadly enough to include death by any act committed by the accused if done contemporaneously with the crime of rape.	None
Any other interpretation would defeat the object of ensuring safety of women and would perpetuate the earlier loophole of the rapists claiming lack of intention to cause death to seek a reduced charge under Section 304 IPC as noted in the Report of the Committee on Amendments to Criminal Law, headed by Justice J.S. Verma, former Chief Justice of India While we believe that enhanced penalties in a substantial number of sexual assault cases can be adjudged on the basis of the law laid down in the aforesaid cases, certain situations warrant a specific treatment.	None
We believe that where the offence of sexual assault, particularly gang rapes, is accompanied by such brutality and violence that it leads to death or a persistent vegetative state (or PVS in medical terminology), punishment must be severe with the minimum punishment being life imprisonment.	None
While we appreciate the argument that where such offences result in death, the case may also be tried under Section 302 IPC as a rarest of the rare case, we must acknowledge that many such cases may actually fall within the ambit of Section 304 (Part II) since the intention to kill may often not be established.	None
In the case of violence resulting in persistent vegetative state is concerned, we are reminded of the moving story of Aruna Shanbaug, the young nurse who was brutally raped and lived the rest of her life (i.e. almost 36 years) in a persistent vegetative state.	None
In our opinion, such situations must be treated differently because the concerted effort to rape and to inflict violence may disclose an intention deserving an enhanced punishment.	None
We have therefore recommended that a specific provision, namely, Section 376(3) should be inserted in the Indian Penal Code to deal with the offence of rape followed by death or resulting in a persistent vegetative state.	None
In the present case, there are some residual doubts in our mind.	None
A crucial witness for constructing the last seen theory, PW 5 is partly inconsistent in crossexamination and quickly jumps from one statement to the other.	None
Two other witnesses, PW 6 and PW 7 had seen the appellant feeding biscuits to the deceased one year before the incident and their long delay in reporting the same fails to inspire confidence.	None
The mother of the deceased has deposed that the wife and daughter of the appellant came to her house and demanded the return of the money which she had borrowed from them but failed to mention that she suspected the appellant of committing the crime initially.	None
Ligature marks on the neck evidencing throttling were noted by PW 20 and PW 12 and in the postmortem report, but find no mention in the panchnama prepared by the police.	None
Viscera samples sent for chemical testing were spoilt and hence remained unexamined.	None
Although nails scrapings of the accused were collected, no report has been produced to show that DNA of the deceased was present.	None
Another initial suspect, Baba alias Ashok Kaurav absconded during investigation, hence, gave rise to the possibility of involvement of more than one person.	None
All these factors of course have no impact in formation of the chain of evidence and are wholly insufficient to create reasonable doubt to earn acquittal.	None
We are cognizant of the fact that use of such residual doubt as a mitigating factor would effectively raise the standard of proof for imposing the death sentence, the benefit of which would be availed of not by the innocent only.	None
However, it would be a misconception to make a costbenefit comparison between cost to society owing to acquittal of one guilty versus loss of life of a perceived innocent.	None
This is because the alternative to death does not necessarily imply setting the convict free.	None
As noted by the United States Supreme Court in Herrera v. Collins (1993) SCC OnLine US SC 10 122 L Ed 2d 203, it is an unalterable fact that our judicial system, like the human beings who administer it, is fallible.	None
However, death being irrevocable, there lies a greater degree of responsibility on the court for an indepth scrutiny of the entire material on record.	None
Still further, qualitatively, the penalty imposed by awarding death is much different than in incarceration, both for the convict and for the State.	None
Hence, a corresponding distinction in requisite standards of proof by taking note of residual doubt during sentencing would not be unwarranted.	None
We are thus of the considered view that the present case falls short of the rarest of rare cases where the death sentence alone deserves to be awarded to the appellant.	None
It appears to us in the light of all the cumulative circumstances that the cause of justice will be effectively served by invoking the concept of special sentencing theory as evolved by this Court in Swamy Shraddananda (2) (2008) 13 SCC 767 and approved in Sriharan case (2016) 7 SCC 1 (2016) 2 SCC Cri 695.	None
Since reference was made in the aforestated decisions of this Court to certain decisions of US Supreme Court, we may now consider those decisions and some other decisions of US Supreme Court on the point and whether the theory of residual doubt has found acceptance in the decisions of US Supreme Court.	None
A California vs. Brown 93 L Ed 2d 934 479 US 538 (1987)	None
The relevant facts noted in the opinion of the Court delivered by Chief Justice Rehnquist were Respondent Albert Brown was found guilty by a jury of forcible rape and firstdegree murder in the death of 15 yearold Susan J. At the penalty phase, the State presented evidence that respondent had raped another young girl some years prior to his attack on Susan J. Respondent presented the testimony of several family members, who recounted respondents peaceful nature and expressed disbelief that respondent was capable of such a brutal crime.	None
Respondent also presented the testimony of a psychiatrist, who stated that Brown killed his victim because of his shame and fear over sexual dysfunction.	None
Brown himself testified, stating that he was ashamed of his prior criminal conduct and asking for mercy from the jury.	None
While instructing the jury to consider the aggravating and mitigating circumstances and to weigh them in determining the appropriate penalty, the trial Court had cautioned the jury that it must not be swayed by mere sentiment, conjecture, sympathy, passion, prejudice, public opinion or public feeling.	None
The instruction so issued was found to have violated the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments by the Supreme Court of California which decision was reversed by US Supreme Court as under  We hold that the instruction challenged in this case does not violate the provisions of the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution.	None
The judgment of the Supreme Court of California is therefore reversed, and the cause is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.	None
Justice OConnor authored a concurring opinion and stated Because the individualized assessment of the appropriateness of the death penalty is a moral inquiry into the culpability of the defendant, and not an emotional response to the mitigating evidence, I agree with the Court that an instruction informing the jury that they must not be swayed by mere sentiment, conjecture, sympathy, passion, prejudice, public opinion or public feeling does not by itself violate the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution.	None
At the same time, the jury instructions taken as a whole must clearly inform the jury that they are to consider any relevant mitigating evidence about a defendants background and character, or about the circumstances of the crime.	None
Justice Brennan (with whom Justice Marshall and Justice Stevens joined) dissented and observed The prosecutor in this case thus interpreted the antisympathy instruction to require that the jury ignore the defendants evidence on the mitigating factors of his character and upbringing.	None
A similar construction has been placed on the instruction in several other cases.	None
Justice Blackmun (with whom Justice Marshall joined) also dissented and stated  The sentencers ability to respond with mercy towards a defendant has always struck me as a particularly valuable aspect of the capital sentencing procedure. .	None
.In	None
my view, we adhere so strongly to our belief that sentencers should have the opportunity to spare a capital defendants life on account of compassion for the individual because, recognizing that the capital sentencing decision must be made in the context of contemporary values, Gregg v. Georgia, 428 U.S., at 181, 96 S.Ct., at 2928 (opinion of Stewart, POWELL, and STEVENS, JJ.)	None
, we see in the sentencers expression of mercy a distinctive feature of our society that we deeply value.	None
Thus, the entire discussion was confined to the validity of the instruction given to the Jury and the issue of residual doubt never arose for consideration.	None
B Franklin v. Lynaugh 101 L Ed 2d 155 487 US 164 (1988)	None
The jury had found Franklin guilty of capital murder.	None
At the conclusion of penalty hearing, the trial court submitted two Special Issues to the jury, instructing the jury that if they determined the answer to both these questions to be Yes, Franklin would be sentenced to death.	None
The issues were Do you find from the evidence beyond a reasonable doubt that the conduct of the Defendant, Donal Gene Franklin, that caused the death of Mary Margaret Moran, was committed deliberately and with the reasonable expectation that the death of the deceased or another would result?	None
Do you find from the evidence beyond a reasonable doubt that there is a probability that the Defendant, Donald Gene Franklin, would commit criminal acts of violence that would constitute a continuing threat to society.	None
Franklin however requested for jury instructions as follows you are instructed that any evidence which, in your opinion, mitigates against the imposition of the Death, Penalty, including any aspect of the Defendants character or record, and any of the circumstances of the commission of the offense .	None
may be sufficient to cause you to have a reasonable doubt as to whether or not the true answer of any of the Special Issues is Yes and in the event such evidence does cause you to have such a reasonable doubt, you should answer the Issue	None
No The request of Franklin was rejected and the jury answered both special issues in affirmative whereafter	None
the trial Court imposed death sentence.	Reasoning
In Federal habeas action filed by Franklin, the submission was recorded Petitioner first suggests that the jury may, in its penalty deliberations, have harbored residual doubts about three issues considered in the guilt phase of his trial first, petitioners identity as the murderer second, the extent to which petitioners actions (as opposed to medical mistreatment) actually caused the victims death and third, the extent to which petitioners actions were intended to result in the victims death.	None
The decision of the Court was delivered by Justice White and the question was formulated as under In this case, we are called on to determine if the Eighth Amendment required a Texas trial court to give certain jury instructions, relating to the consideration of mitigating evidence, that petitioner had requested in the sentencing phase of his capital trial Rejecting the challenge it was observed At the outset, we note that this Court has never held that a capital defendant has a constitutional right to an instruction telling the jury to revisit the question of his identity as the murderer as a basis for mitigation.	None
Our edict that, in a capital case, the sentencer . . .	None
may not be precluded from considering, as a mitigating factor, any aspect of a defendants character or record and any of the circumstances of the offense, Eddings v. Oklahoma, 455 U.S. 104, 110, 102 S.Ct. 869, 874, 71 L.Ed.2d 1 (1982) (quoting Lockett, 438 U.S., at 604, 98 S.Ct., at 2964), in no way mandates reconsideration by capital juries, in the sentencing phase, of their residual doubts over a defendants guilt.	None
Such lingering doubts are not over any aspect of petitioners character, record, or a circumstance of the offense.	None
This Courts prior decisions, as we understand them, fail to recognize a constitutional right to have such doubts considered as a mitigating factor.	None
Justice OConnor (with whom Justice Blackmun joined) authored a concurring judgement and the submission of Franklin was noted as under Petitioner also contends that the sentencing procedures followed in his case prevented the jury from considering, in mitigation of sentence, any residual doubts it might have had about his guilt.	None
Petitioner uses the phrase residual doubts to refer to doubts that may have lingered in the minds of jurors who were convinced of his guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, but who were not absolutely certain of his guilt.	None
Brief for Petitioner 14.	None
The plurality and dissent reject petitioners residual doubt claim because they conclude that the special verdict questions did not prevent the jury from giving mitigating effect to its residual doubts about petitioners guilt.	None
See ante at 2328 post, at 2335.	None
This conclusion is open to question, however.	None
Although the jury was permitted to consider evidence presented at the guilt phase in the course of answering the special verdict questions, the jury was specifically instructed to decide whether the evidence supported affirmative answers to the special questions beyond a reasonable doubt.	None
App. 15 (emphasis added).	None
Because of this instruction, the jury might not have thought that, in sentencing the petitioner, it was free to demand proof of his guilt beyond all doubt.	None
Justice OConnor rejected the submission and observed  In my view, petitioners residual doubt claim fails, not because the Texas scheme allowed for consideration of residual doubt by the sentencing body, but rather because the Eighth Amendment does not require it.	None
Our cases do not support the proposition that a defendant who has been found to be guilty of a capital crime beyond a reasonable doubt has a constitutional right to reconsideration by the sentencing body of lingering doubts about his guilt.	None
We have recognized that some States have adopted capital sentencing procedures that permit defendants in some cases to enjoy the benefit of doubts that linger from the guilt phase of the trial, see Lockhart v. McCree, 476 U.S. 162, 181, 106 S.Ct. 1758, 1769, 90 L.Ed.2d 137 (1986), but we have never indicated that the Eighth Amendment requires States to adopt such procedures.	None
To the contrary, as the plurality points out, we have approved capital sentencing procedures that preclude consideration by the sentencing body of residual doubts about guilt.	None
See ante, at 2327, n. 6 .	None
Our decisions mandating jury consideration of mitigating circumstances provide no support for petitioners claim because residual doubt about guilt is not a mitigating circumstance.	None
We have defined mitigating circumstances as facts about the defendants character or background, or the circumstances of the particular offense, that may call for a penalty less than death.	None
See California v. Brown, 479 U.S., at 541, 107 S.Ct., at 839 id., at 544, 107 S.Ct., at 840 (OCONNOR, J., concurring) Eddings, 455 U.S., at 110, 112, 102 S.Ct., at 874, 875 id., at 117, 102 S.Ct., at 878 (OCONNOR, J., concurring) Lockett, 438 U.S., at 605, 98 S.Ct., at 2965.	None
Residual doubt is not a fact about the defendant or the circumstances of the crime.	None
It is instead a lingering uncertainty about facts, a state of mind that exists somewhere between beyond a reasonable doubt and absolute certainty.	None
Petitioners residual doubt claim is that the States must permit capital sentencing bodies to demand proof of guilt to an absolute certainty before imposing the death sentence.	None
Nothing in our cases mandates the imposition of this heightened burden of proof at capital sentencing.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
During the course of her judgment, Justice OConnor also made following observations  	None
In my view, the principle underlying Lockett 438 U.S. 586, 98 S.Ct. 2954, 57 L.Ed.2d 973 (1978), Eddings 455	None
U.S. 104, 102 S.Ct. 869.	None
71 L.Ed.2d 1 (1982) , and Hitchcock 481 U.S. 393, 107 S.Ct. 1821, 95 L.Ed.2d 347 (1987) is that punishment should be directly related to the personal culpability of the criminal defendant.	None
Evidence about the defendants background and character is relevant because of the belief, long held by this society, that defendants who commit criminal acts that are attributable to a disadvantaged background, or to emotional and mental problems, may be less culpable than defendants who have no such excuse.	None
Thus, the sentence imposed at the penalty stage should reflect a reasoned moral response to the defendants background, character, and crime.	None
California v. Brown, 479 U.S.538, 545, 107 S.Ct.	None
837, 841, 93 L.Ed.2d 934 (1987) (OCONNOR, J., concurring) (emphasis in original)	None
In light of this principle it is clear that a State may not constitutionally prevent the sentencing body from giving effect to evidence relevant to the defendants background or character or the circumstances of the offense that mitigates against the death penalty.	None
Indeed, the right to have the sentencer consider and weigh relevant mitigating evidence would be meaningless unless the sentencer was also permitted to give effect to its consideration.	None
Under the sentencing procedure followed in this case the jury could express its views about the appropriate punishment only by answering the special verdict questions regarding the deliberations of the murder and the defendants future dangerousness.	None
To the extent that the mitigating evidence introduced by petitioner was relevant to one of the special verdict questions, the jury was free to give effect to that evidence by returning a negative answer to that question.	None
If, however, petitioner had introduced mitigating evidence about his background or character or the circumstances of the crime that was not relevant to the special verdict questions, or that had relevance to the defendants moral culpability beyond the scope of the special verdict questions, the jury instructions would have provided the jury with no vehicle for expressing its reasoned moral responds to that evidence.	None
Noting in Lockett or Eddings requires that the sentencing authority be permitted to give effect to evidence beyond the extent to which it is relevant to the defendants character or background or the circumstances of the offense.	None
The dissenting opinion authored by Justice Stevens (joined by Justice Brennan and Justice Marshall) stated  In requiring that the discretion of the sentencer in capital sentencing be guided, we have never suggested that the sentencers discretion could be guided by blinding it to relevant evidence.	None
The hallmark of a sentencing scheme that sufficiently guides and directs the sentencer is the presence of procedures that require the jury to consider the circumstances of the crime and the criminal before it recommends sentence.	None
Id., at 197, 96 S.Ct., at 2936.	None
The requirement that the State not bar the sentencer from considering any mitigating aspect of the offense or the offender only furthers the goal of focusing the sentencers attention on the defendant and the particular circumstances of the crime.	None
C Herrera Vs. Collins (1993)	None
SCC OnLine US SC 10 122 L Ed 2d 203	None
The syllabus prepared by the Reporter of Decisions summed up the facts as under  On the basis of proof which included two eyewitness identifications, numerous pieces of circumstantial evidence, and petitioner Herreras handwritten letter impliedly admitting his guilt, Herrera was convicted of the capital murder of Police Officer Carrisalez and sentenced to death in January 1982.	None
After pleading guilty, in July 1982, to the related capital murder of Officer Rucker, Herrera unsuccessfully challenged the Carrisalez conviction on direct appeal and in two collateral proceedings in the Texas state courts, and in a federal habeas petition.	None
Ten years after his conviction, he urged in second federal habeas proceeding that newly discovered evidence demonstrated that he was actually innocent of the murders of Carrisalez and Rucker, and that the Eighth Amendments prohibition against cruel and unusual punishment and the Fourteenth Amendments due process guarantee therefore forbid his execution.	None
He supported this claim with affidavits tending to show that his nowdead brother had committed the murders.	None
The District Court, inter alia, granted his request for a stay of execution so that he could present his actual innocence claim and the supporting affidavits in state court.	None
In vacating the stay, the Court of Appeals held that the claim was not cognizable on federal habeas absent, an accompanying federal constitutional violation.	None
Rejecting federal habeas petition preferred by Herrera, Chief Justice Rehnquist delivered the opinion of the Court and stated  In capital cases, we have required additional protections because of the nature of the penalty at stake.	None
See, e.g., Beck v. Alabama, 447 U.S. 625, 100 S.Ct. 2382, 65 L.Ed.2d 392 (1980) (jury must be given option of convicting the defendant of a lesser offense).	None
All of these constitutional safeguards, of course, make it more difficult for the State to rebut and finally overturn the presumption of innocence which attaches to every criminal defendant.	None
But we have also observed that due process does not require that every conceivable step be taken, at whatever cost, to eliminate the possibility of convicting an innocent person.	None
Patterson v. New York, 432 U.S. 197, 208, 97 S.Ct. 2319, 2326, 53 L.Ed.2d 281 (1977).	None
To conclude otherwise would all but paralyze our system for enforcement of the criminal law.	None
Petitioner asserts that this case is different because he has been sentenced to death.	None
But we have refused to hold that the fact that a death sentence has been imposed requires a different standard of review on federal habeas corpus.	None
Murray v. Giarratano, 492 U.S. 1, 9, 109 S.Ct. 2765, 2770, 106 L.Ed.2d 1 91989) (plurality opinion).	None
We have, of course, held that the Eighth Amendment requires increased reliability of the process by which capital punishment may be imposed.	None
See, e.g., McKoy v. North Carolina, 494 U.S.433, 110 S.Ct. 1227, 108 L.Ed.2d 369 (1990) (unanimity requirement impermissibly limits jurors consideration of mitigating evidence)	None
Eddings v. Oklahoma, 455 U.S. 104, 102 S.Ct. 869, 71 L.Ed.2d 1 (1982) (jury must be allowed to consider all of a capital defendants mitigating character evidence)	None
Lockett v. Ohio, 438 U.S. 586, 604, 98 S.Ct. 2954, 2964, 57 L.Ed.2d 973 (1978) (plurality opinion) (same).	None
But petitioners claim does not fit well into the doctrine of these cases, since, as we have pointed out, it is far from clear that a second trial 10 years after the first trial would produce a more reliable result.	None
Perhaps mindful of this, petitioner urges not that he necessarily receive a new trial, but that his death sentence simply be vacated if a federal habeas court deems that a satisfactory showing of actual innocence has been made.	None
Tr.	None
Of Oral Arg. 1920.	None
But such a result is scarcely logical petitioners claim is not that some error was made in imposing a capital sentence upon him, but that a fundamental error was made in finding him guilty of the underlying murder in the first place.	None
It would be a rather strange jurisprudence, in these circumstances, which held that under our Constitution he could not be executed, but that he could spend the rest of his life in prison.	None
Executive clemency has provided fail safe in our criminal justice system.	None
K. Moore, Pardons Justice, Mercy, and the Public Interest 131 (1989).	None
It is an unalterable fact that our judicial system, like the human beings who administer it, is fallible.	None
But history is replete with examples of wrongfully convicted persons who have been pardoned in the wake of afterdiscovered evidence establishing their innocence Justice OConnor (joined by Justice Kennedy) delivered a concurring opinion.	None
Justice Scalia (joined by Justice Thomas) also rendered a concurring opinion.	None
Another concurring opinion was rendered by Justice White, while Justice Blackmun (joined by Justice Stevens and Justice Souter) dissented.	None
D Oregon vs. Guzek 546 US 517 (2006)	None
The syllabus prepared by the Reporter of Decisions stated the facts as under  At the guilt phase of respondent Guzeks capital murder trial, his mother was one of two witnesses who testified that he had been with her on the night the crime was committed.	None
He was convicted and sentenced to death.	None
Twice, the Oregon Supreme Court vacated the sentence and ordered new sentencing proceedings, but each time Guzek was again sentenced to death.	None
Upon vacating his sentence for a third time, the State Supreme Court held that the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments provide Guzek a federal constitutional right to introduce live alibi testimony from his mother at the upcoming resentencing proceeding.	None
After this Court granted certiorari, Guzek filed a motion to dismiss the writ as improvidently granted.	None
The decision of the Oregon Supreme Court was reversed by US Supreme Court.	None
The opinion of the Court was delivered by Justice Breyer with following observations As our discussion in Part II, supra, makes clear, the federal question before us is a narrow one.	None
Do the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments grant Guzek a constitutional right to present evidence of the kind he seeks to introduce, namely, new evidence that shows he was not present at the scene of the crime.	None
That evidence is inconsistent with Guzeks prior conviction.	None
It sheds no light on the manner in which he committed the crime for which he has been convicted.	None
Nor is it evidence that Guzek contends was unavailable to him at the time of the original trial.	None
And, to the extent it is evidence he introduced at that time, he is free to introduce it now, albeit in transcript form.	None
Ore.Rev.Stat.	None
138.012(2)(b) (2003).	None
We can find nothing in the Eighth or Fourteenth Amendments that provides a capital defendant a right to introduce new evidence of this kind at sentencing.	None
We cannot agree with the Oregon Supreme Court that our previous cases have found in the Eighth Amendment a constitutional right broad enough to encompass the evidence here at issue.	None
In Lockett v. Ohio, supra, a plurality of this Court decided that a defendant convicted of acting in concert with others to rob and to kill could introduce at the sentencing stage evidence that she had played a minor role in the crime, indeed, that she had remained outside the shop (where the killing took place) at the time of the crime.	None
A plurality of the Court wrote that, the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments require that the sentencer not be precluded from considering, as a mitigating factor, any aspect of a defendants character or record and any of the circumstances of the offense that the defendant proffers as a basis for a sentence less than death.	None
Id., at 604, 98 S.Ct. 2954 (emphasis added and deleted).	None
And in Eddings v. Oklahoma, 455 U.S. 104, 102 S.Ct. 869, 71 L.Ed.2d 1, the Court majority adopted this statement.	None
See also McCleskey v. Kemp, 481 U.S. 279, 306, 107 S.Ct. 1756, 95 L.Ed.2d 262 (1987)	None
Bell v. Ohio, 438 U.S. 637, 642, 98 S.Ct. 2977, 57 L.Ed.2d 1010 (1978) (plurality opinion).	None
But the evidence at issue in these cases was traditional sentencerelated evidence, evidence that tended to show how, not whether, the defendant committed the crime.	None
Nor was the evidence directly inconsistent with the jurys finding of guilt.	None
Justice Scalia (joined by Justice Thomas) delivered a concurring opinion E Abdul Kabir vs. Quarterman 550 US 233 (2007)	None
In this case, the theory of residual doubt did not come up for consideration.	None
However in the judgement of the Court delivered by Justice Stevens, the opinion of Justice OConnor in Franklin vs. Lynaugh 101 L Ed 2d 155 487 US 164 (1988) was referred to as under What makes Franklin significant, however, is the separate opinion of Justice OConnor, and particularly those portions of her opinion expressing the views of five Justices, see infra, at 1668 1669, and n.15.	None
After summarizing the cases that clarified Jureks holding she worte	None
In my view, the principle underlying Lockett, Eddings, and Hitchcock is that punishment should be directly related to the personal culpability of the criminal defendant.	None
Evidence about the defendants background and character is relevant because of the belief, long held by this society, that defendants who commit criminal acts that are attributable to a disadvantaged background, or to emotional and mental problems, may be less culpable than defendants who have no such excuse .	None
Thus, the sentence imposed at the penalty stage should reflect a reasoned moral response to the defendants background, character, and crime.	None
California v. Brown, 479 U.S. 538, 545, 107 S.Ct.	None
837, 93 L.Ed.2d 934 (1987) (OConnor, J., concurring) (emphasis in original).	None
In light of this principle it is clear that a State may not constitutionally prevent the sentencing body from giving effect to the evidence relevant to the defendants background or character or the circumstances of the offense that mitigates against the death penalty.	None
Indeed, the right to have the sentencer consider and weigh relevant mitigating evidence would be meaningless unless the sentencer was also permitted to give effect to its consideration.	None
Under the sentencing procedure followed in this case the jury could express its views about the appropriate punishment only by answering the special verdict questions regarding the deliberateness of the murder and the defendants future dangerousness.	None
To the extent that the mitigating evidence introduced by petitioner was relevant to one of the special verdict questions, the jury was free to give effect to that evidence by returning a negative answer to that question.	None
If, however, petitioner had introduced mitigating evidence about his background or character or the circumstances of the crime that was not relevant to the special verdict questions, or that had relevance to the defendants moral culpability beyond the scope of the special verdict questions, the jury instructions would have provided the jury with no vehicle for expressing its reasoned moral response to that evidence.	None
487 U.S. at 184185, 108 S.Ct. 2320 (opinion concurring in Judgment) (emphasis added).	None
We may also note the decision of the Supreme Court of Tennessee in State vs. Mckinney 74 SW 3d 291, as it was referred to in the decision of this Court in Ravishankar alias Baba Vishwakarma vs. State of Madhya Pradesh (2019) 9 SCC 689 .	None
In that case, the Defence Counsel sought to refer to the evidence from the Guilt Phase of the trial during his closing argument in the sentencing phase of the trial.	None
Whether the decision in not permitting him to do so was correct, was the issue.	None
The opinion of the Court observed  Residual doubt evidence, in general, may consist of proof admitted during the sentencing phase that indicates the defendant did not commit the offense, notwithstanding the jurys verdict following the guilt phase.	None
In contrast, the present case does not involve a resentencing procedure, nor does it involve a defendants effort to introduce evidence of residual doubt.	None
Instead, the defendant only sought to argue evidence that had already been admitted by the trial court and heard by the same jury in the guilt phase of the trial.	None
Moreover, given that this was not a resentencing hearing, the reality is that the sentencing jury had already heard the testimony underlying defense counsels proposed argument and had reconciled it in favor of the States theory of guilt and against the defendants theory of innocence.	None
It was concluded  (4) the trail courts refusal to allow defense counsel to refer to evidence from the guilt phase of the trial during his closing argument in the sentencing phase of the trial did not affect the jurys determination to the prejudice of the defendant and was harmless error.	None
The principles that emerge from the decisions of U.S. Supreme Court are (i) .this	None
Court has never held that a capital defendant has a constitutional right to an instruction telling the jury to revisit the question of his identity as the murderer as a basis for mitigation Justice White speaking for the Court in Franklin vs. Lynaugh 101 L Ed 2d 155 487 US 164 (1988) .	None
(ii) .Our	None
edict that, in a capital case, the sentencer . . .	None
may not be precluded from considering, as a mitigating factor, any aspect of a defendants character or record and any of the circumstances of the offense, in no way mandates reconsideration by capital juries, in the sentencing phase, of their residual doubts over a defendants guilt.	None
Justice White speaking for the Court in Franklin vs. Lynaugh 101 L Ed 2d 155 487 US 164 (1988) .	None
Our cases do not support the proposition that a defendant who has been found to be guilty of a capital crime beyond a reasonable doubt has a constitutional right to reconsideration by the sentencing body of lingering doubts about his guilt Justice OConnor in concurring opinion in Franklin vs. Lynaugh 101 L Ed 2d 155 487 US 164 (1988) we have approved capital sentencing procedures that preclude consideration by the sentencing body of residual doubts about guilt.	None
Justice OConnor in concurring opinion in Franklin vs. Lynaugh 101 L Ed 2d 155 487 US 164 (1988) .	None
Our decisions mandating jury consideration of mitigating circumstances provide no support for petitioners claim because residual doubt about guilt is not a mitigating circumstance.	None
Justice OConnor in concurring opinion in Franklin vs. Lynaugh 101 L Ed 2d 155 487 US 164 (1988) .	None
Residual doubt is not a fact about the defendant or the circumstances of the crime.	None
It is instead a lingering uncertainty about facts, a state of mind that exists somewhere between beyond a reasonable doubt and absolute certainty.	None
Petitioners residual doubt claim is that the States must permit capital sentencing bodies to demand proof of guilt to an absolute certainty before imposing the death sentence.	None
Nothing in our cases mandates the imposition of this heightened burden of proof at capital sentencing.	None
(Emphasis added)	None
Justice OConnor in concurring opinion in Franklin vs. Lynaugh 101 L Ed 2d 155 487 US 164 (1988) .	None
In capital cases, we have required additional protections because of the nature of the penalty at stake.	None
(jury must be given option of convicting the defendant of a lesser offense).	None
All of these constitutional safeguards, of course, make it more difficult for the State to rebut and finally overturn the presumption of innocence which attaches to every criminal defendant.	None
But we have also observed that due process does not require that every conceivable step be taken, at whatever cost, to eliminate the possibility of convicting an innocent person.	None
To conclude otherwise would all but paralyze our system for enforcement of the criminal law.	None
Chief Justice Rehnquist speaking for the Court in Herrera Vs. Collins (1993)	None
SCC OnLine US SC 10 122 L Ed 2d 203	None
It would be a rather strange jurisprudence, in these circumstances, which held that under our Constitution he could not be executed, but that he could spend the rest of his life in prison.	None
Chief Justice Rehnquist speaking for the Court in Herrera Vs. Collins (1993)	None
SCC OnLine US SC 10 122 L Ed 2d 203 .	None
(ix) Do the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments grant Guzek a constitutional right to present evidence of the kind he seeks to introduce, namely, new evidence that shows he was not present at the scene of the crime.	None
That evidence is inconsistent with Guzeks prior conviction.	None
It sheds no light on the manner in which he committed the crime for which he has been convicted.	None
Justice Breyer speaking for the Court in Oregon vs. Guzek 546 US 517 (2006) (x) But the evidence at issue in these cases was traditional sentencerelated evidence, evidence that tended to show how, not whether, the defendant committed the crime.	None
Nor was the evidence directly inconsistent with the jurys finding of guilt.	None
Justice Breyer speaking for the Court in Oregon vs. Guzek 546 US 517 (2006)	None
The sentencers ability to respond with mercy towards a defendant has always struck me as a particularly valuable aspect of the capital sentencing procedure. .	None
The observations in the dissenting opinion of Justice Blackmun in California vs. Brown 93 L Ed 2d 934 479 US 538 (1987) .	None
Following features from these decisions of U.S. Supreme Court are noteworthy  	None
As the decision in California vs. Brown 93 L Ed 2d 934 479 US 538 (1987) discloses, the jury trial comprises of two phases.	None
The first is called Guilt Phase where the question for determination is whether the offence as alleged has been proved by the prosecution which is akin to conviction stage in our jurisprudence while the second phase is called Penalty Phase at which stage the question for consideration is about the appropriate penalty to be awarded when the guilt is established which is similar to sentence stage in our jurisprudence.	None
In both the phases, the basic issues are to be dealt with by jurors who are drawn from cross sections of the society, while the function for such determination and consideration in our jurisprudence is entrusted to judicial officers adequately trained and appropriately equipped with practical experience.	None
A jury is likely to be swayed by emotions or sentiments, which is why the caution was given to the jury by the trial court in California vs. Brown 93 L Ed 2d 934 479 US 538 (1987) .	None
But that element or possibility gets ruled out when an experienced judicial officer is entrusted with the requisite task.	None
Secondly, there can be fresh sentencing procedure on as many as four occasions as the decision in Oregon vs. Guzek 546 US 517 (2006) shows or the process of challenge may take considerable time as the decision in Herrera vs. Collins (1993)	None
SCC OnLine US SC 10 122 L Ed 2d 203 discloses.	None
Naturally, there would be some time gap between two phases, possibly leading to a situation where the composition of the jury at the Penalty Phase may not be same as it was at the Guilt Phase.	None
Consequently, the attempts on part of the defence to highlight any area or aspect in the evidence which could be said to be doubtful in the hope that there could be a change in perception.	None
This possibility again does not arise in our jurisprudence, as the same judicial officer who heard and decided the matter at the conviction stage is to decide the matter at the sentence stage and without any undue lapse of time.	None
At the Penalty Phase, the Prosecutor and the Defence are allowed to lead evidence.	None
Whether such leading of evidence may also include evidence touching upon the identity of the Accused or his role in the transaction or any matter concerning evidence leading to determination of his guilt were the issues in Oregon vs. Guzek 546 US 517 (2006) and the portion extracted from that decision shows the approach adopted by US Supreme Court.	None
In our jurisprudence, if there be any new evidence which may go to the root of the matter, leading of such evidence can be permitted at the appellate stage subject to fulfilment of governing principles.	None
These features are only illustrative to say that the theory of residual doubt that got developed was a result of peculiarity in the process adopted.	None
Even then, what is material to note is that the theory has consistently been rejected by U.S. Supreme Court and as stated by Justice OConnor  Nothing in our cases mandated the imposition of this heightened burden of proof at capital sentencing.	None
50.	None
(A) In Ashok Debbarma (2014) 4 SCC 747 , after noticing the decisions of US Supreme Court in California vs. Brown 93 L Ed 2d 934 479 US 538 (1987) and in Franklin vs. Lynaugh 101 L Ed 2d 155 487 US 164 (1988) , it was observed that residual doubt as a mitigating circumstance did not find favour with various Courts in the United States.	None
On facts, it was however observed that the Court entertained lingering doubt as to whether the appellant alone could have executed the crime singlehandedly, especially when the prosecution itself says that it was handiwork of a large group of people.	None
Thus, the doubt that was entertained was not about the guilt of the accused simpliciter or about his involvement in the crime but whether the appellant alone could have committed the crime which resulted in the death of as many as 35 persons and such doubt weighed with the Court while commuting death sentence to imprisonment for life.	None
It must be stated here that what was paraphrased in paragraph 33 of the decision was the relevant portion from the opinion of Justice OConnor in Franklin v. Lynaugh 101 L Ed 2d 155 487 US 164 (1988) and not from the decision in California v. Brown 93 L Ed 2d 934 479 US 538 (1987).	None
In Sudam alias Rahul Kaniram Jadhav v. State of Maharashtra (2019) 9 SCC 388 , it was noted in paragraph 19.1 that there would be no bar on the award of death sentence in cases based on circumstantial evidence.	None
Thereafter, the decision in Ashok Debbarma (2014) 4 SCC 747 was considered and the Court observed that in several cases, quality of evidence to a higher standard was insisted upon for passing the irrevocable sentence of death and reliance was placed on the decision in Mohd.	None
Mannan vs. State of Bihar (2019) 16 SCC 584.	None
The deduction in paragraph 21 rested inter alia on the aspect that the nature of the circumstantial evidence in this case amounts to a circumstance significant enough to tilt the balance of aggravating and mitigating circumstances in the petitioners favour.	None
In Ravishankar (2019) 9 SCC 689 it was observed that imposition of a higher standard of proof for the purposes of death sentencing over and above beyond reasonable doubt necessary for criminal conviction is similar to the residual doubt metric adopted by this Court in Ashok Debbarma vs. State of Tripura (2014) 4 SCC 747.	None
In this case, as per paragraph 10 of the decision, blood samples of six suspects were sent for DNA analysis but only DNA profile from the blood of the appellant matched with that from the vaginal slide of the deceased.	None
Additionally, reliance was placed by the prosecution on the testimony of PWs 5, 6 and 7, as set out in paragraphs 17 and 18.	None
The reason why the version coming from PWs 5, 6 and 7 could not inspire complete confidence was dealt with in paragraph 61.	None
It was further observed that another suspect Baba alias Ashok Kaurav having absconded during investigation, there was possibility of involvement of more than one person, giving rise to the same safety filter adopted in Ashok Debbarma (2014) 4 SCC 747 .	None
These cases thus show that the matters were considered from the standpoint of individual fact situation where, going by the higher or stricter standard for imposition of death penalty, alternative to death sentence was found to be appropriate.	None
When it comes to cases based on circumstantial evidence in our jurisprudence, the standard that is adopted in terms of law laid down by this Court as noticed in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda (1984) 4 SCC 116 and subsequent decisions is that the circumstances must not only be individually proved or established, but they must form a consistent chain, so conclusive as to rule out the possibility of any other hypothesis except the guilt of the accused.	None
On the strength of these principles, the burden in such cases is already of a greater magnitude.	None
Once that burden is discharged, it is implicit that any other hypothesis or the innocence of the accused, already stands ruled out when the matter is taken up at the stage of sentence after returning the finding of guilt.	None
So, theoretically the concept or theory of residual doubt does not have any place in a case based on circumstantial evidence.	None
As a matter of fact, the theory of residual doubt was never accepted by US Supreme Court as discussed earlier.	None
However, as summed up in Kalu Khan (2015) 16 SCC 492 paras 16, 23 and 31 , while dealing with cases based on circumstantial evidence, for imposition of a death sentence, higher or stricter standard must be insisted upon.	None
The approach to be adopted in matters concerning capital punishment, therefore ought to be in conformity with the principles culled out in paragraph 41 hereinabove and the instant matter must therefore be considered in the light of those principles.	None
If the present case is so considered, the discussion must broadly be classified under following two heads  Whether the circumstantial evidence in the present case is of unimpeachable character in establishing the guilt of the Appellant or leads to an exceptional case.	None
Whether the evidence on record is so strong and convincing that the option of a sentence lesser than a death penalty is foreclosed.	None
Going by the circumstances proved on record and, more particularly the facets detailed in paragraph 19 hereinabove as well as the law laid down by this Court in series of decisions, the circumstances on record rule out any hypothesis of innocence of the Appellant.	None
The circumstances are clear, consistent and conclusive in nature and are of unimpeachable character in establishing the guilt of the Appellant.	None
The evidence on record also depicts an exceptional case where two and half years old girl was subjected to sexual assault.	None
The assault was accompanied by bites on the body of the victim.	None
The rape was of such intensity that there was merging of vaginal and anal orifices of the victim.	None
The age of the victim, the fact that the Appellant was a maternal uncle of the victim and the intensity of the assault make the present case an exceptional one.	None
However, if the case is considered against the second head, we do not find that the option of a sentence lesser than death penalty is completely foreclosed.	None
It is true that the sexual assault was very severe and the conduct of the Appellant could be termed as perverse and barbaric.	None
However, a definite pointer in favour of the Appellant is the fact that he did not consciously cause any injury with the intent to extinguish the life of the victim.	None
Though all the injuries are attributable to him and it was injury No.17 which was the cause of death, his conviction under Section 302 IPC is not under any of the first three clauses of Section 300 IPC.	None
In matters where the conviction is recorded with the aid of clause fourthly under Section 300 of IPC, it is very rare that the death sentence is awarded.	None
In cases at Serial Nos. 10, 11, 16, 24, 40, 45 and 64 of the Chart tabulated in paragraph 30 hereinabove, where the victims were below 16 years of age and had died during the course of sexual assault on them, the maximum sentence awarded was life sentence.	None
This aspect is of crucial importance while considering whether the option of a sentence lesser than death penalty is foreclosed or not.	None
We therefore, find that though the Appellant is guilty of the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC, since there was no requisite intent as would bring the case under any of the first three clauses of Section 300 IPC, the offence in the present case does not deserve death penalty.	None
The second count on which death sentence has been imposed is under Section 376A of IPC.	None
As noted earlier, the offence was committed on 11.02.2013 and just few days before such commission, Section 376A was inserted in IPC by the Ordinance.	None
As concluded by us in paragraph 16 hereinabove, the expost facto effect given to Section 376A inserted by the Amendment Act would not in any way be inconsistent with subArticle (1) of Article 20 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The Appellant is thus definitely guilty of the offence punishable under Section 376A IPC.	None
But the question remains whether punishment lesser than death sentence gets ruled out or not.	None
As against Section 302 IPC while dealing with cases under Section 376A IPC, a wider spectrum is available for consideration by the Courts as to the punishment to be awarded.	None
On the basis of the same aspects that weighed with us while considering the appropriate punishment for the offence under Section 302 IPC, in view of the fact that Section 376A IPC was brought on the statute book just few days before the commission of the offence, the Appellant does not deserve death penalty for said offence.	None
At the same time, considering the nature and enormity of the offence, it must be observed that the appropriate punishment for the offence under Section 376A IPC must be rigorous imprisonment for a term of 25 years.	None
In view of the aforestated conclusions drawn by us, it is not necessary to deal with the submissions IV, V, VI, VII, VIII and IX, advanced by Ms. Mathur, learned Senior Advocate in respect of the issue of sentence.	None
Consequently, while affirming the view taken by the Courts below in recording conviction of the Appellant for the offences punishable under Sections 302 IPC and 376A IPC, we commute the sentence to life imprisonment for the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC and to that of rigorous imprisonment for 25 years for the offence punishable under Section 376A IPC.	Decision
The conviction and sentence recorded by the Courts below for the offences punishable under Section 376(1), (2)(f), (i) and (m) of IPC, and under Section 6 of the POCSO Act are affirmed.	Decision
These appeals are allowed to the aforesaid extent.	Decision
