 Untwailia, J.1.	None
There were three candidates to contest the election to the Legislative Assembly of Madhya Pradesh from the Bhainsdeshi Assembly (Reserved) Constituency in the last general elections.	Facts
The appellant in this appeal under Sec. 116A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951  hereinafter referred to as the Act, was declared elected to the seat defeating the other two candidates who are respondents 2 and 3.	Facts
Respondent no.	Facts
I filed an Election Petition in the Madhya Pradesh High Court challenging the election of the appellant on several grounds.	Facts
A learned single Judge of the High Court has declared the election of the appellant void on one ground only.	Facts
It has been held that he indulged in a corrupt practice within the meaning of section 123 (1) (A) (b) of the Act.	Facts
We shall confine the statement of facts in this case to the only ground on which the appellants election has been set aside.2.	Facts
Respondent no. 1 stated in paragraph 6 of his election Petition(iv) That after the date of withdrawal the respondent no.1 himself end through his aforesaid agents and workers with his consent was vehemently trying to induce the respondent no. 3 to support the candidature of the respondent no. 1, and declare that the electors, should not vote for the respondent no. 3, but should vote for the respondent no.	Facts
1.(v)That the respondent no. 1, and his aforesaid agents and workers having failed in their attempt in inducing the respondent no. 3 from either standing, withdrawing or declaring to support the candidature of the respondent no. 1, and the respondent no.	Facts
3. having started his election campaign in full swing, the respondent no. 1 apprehended that if respondent no. 3, remains in contest then, he had no chance of success.	Facts
Therefore he made determined efforts, to see that the respondent no. 3 makes an appeal to the electors of the constituency to the effect that the electors should vote for the respondent no. 1 and should refrain from voting in favour of the respondent no. 3, and withdraws from the contest(vii) That on 2221972 at Paratwada respondent no.	Facts
I himself in the company of his agents and workers Shri N. K. P. Salve, Shiv Bux Singh and Baboolal Pathak induced the respondent no. 3 to support the Candidature of the respondent no, 1 and offered to pay compensation to respondent no.	Facts
3.	Facts
The respondent no. 3 agreed to support the candidature of the respondent no. 1, and to publish a pamphlet to the effect that the electors should vote for the respondent no. 1 and should refrain from voting the respondent no.	Facts
3.	Facts
The respondent no. 1 offered a sum of Rs. 8000/ to the respondent no. 3 as compensation, which he had incurred in his election campaign.3.	Facts
On appreciation of evidence adduced before the High Court, on the relevant issues it recorded the following findingsISSUE NO. 1 (a)The respondent no. 1 (Kalya Singh) asked respondent no. 3 (Patiram) on the night intervening 22nd and 2321972 at Paratwada to withdraw from the contest and to support respondent no.	Facts
1.	Facts
Respondent no. 1 also offered to pay Rs. 8,000/ as compensation to respondent no. 3 for the election expenses till then incurred by him .ISSUE	Facts
No. 1.	Facts
(b)The respondent, no. 3 agreed to support respondent no. 1 and to issue a pamphlet requesting the voters to vote for respondent no.	Facts
1.ISSUE	Facts
No, 1 (c) ,A sum of Rs. 4,000/ was void in cash on 23rd February, 1972 by respondent no. 1 to respondent no.	Facts
3.	Facts
A pronote for Rs. 4,000/ (Ex. P3) executed by respondent no. 1 in favour of Shiv Darshan Singh was also handed over by respondent	Facts
no. l to respondent no.	Facts
3.	Facts
It was also agreed that in case the balance amount of Rupees 4,000/ was not paid by respondent no. 1 respondent no. 3 will hand over the pronote to Shiv Darshan Singh who will recover the amount from Respondent no. 1 and pay to respondent no.	Facts
3.ISSUE	Facts
No, 1 (d)In the meeting held at Bhainsdeshi on 23rd February, 1972 it was announced by respondent no. 3 that he now supports the Congress.	Facts
The said meeting was also addressed by respondent no. 1, Shivbux Singh and Kawadkar.	Facts
They also announced the withdrawal from the contest of respondent no. 3, and asked the electors to vote for respondent no.	Facts
1.ISSUE No. 1 (e) .The pamphlet (Ex. P11) was distributed in the meeting of 23rd February, 1972.4.	Facts
Mr. G. L. Sanghi, learned counsel for the appellant in the first instance submitted that on the face of the pleadings in the Election Petition as also on the findings of fact recorded by the High Court it has gone wrong in law in holding that the appellant was guilty of having indulged in corrupt practice within the meaning of Section123 (1) (A) (b) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He reserved his right to assail the findings by taking us through the evidence in case his contention in law were not found to be sound.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. S. S. .Khanduja combated the argument put forward on behalf, of the appellant and relied upon a decision of this Court in Abdul Hussain Mir v. Shamsul Huda, Civil Appeal No. 915 of 1974 decided on 20121974 (reported in AIR 1975.	Arguments of Petitioner
SC 1612) to which One of us (A. Alagiriswami, J.) was a party.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. S. K. Gambhir appearing for respondent no. 3 asked us, in the event of the appellants success in the appeal, to exonerate the said respondent of the charge of having indulged m a corrupt practice within the meaning of Section 123 (1) (B) of the Act as found by the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
Since the point of law urged on behalf of the appellant was found to be sound, we did not proceed to examine the evidence in the case.5.	Arguments of Respondent
We may state in a condensed form the findings recorded by the High Court against the appellant in the background of what was pleaded in the Election Petition.	None
The appellant by paying a sum of Rs. 4,000/ in cash and promising payment of another sum of Rs. 4,000/ by execution of a promissory note made respondent no. 3 to retire from the contest, support the candidature of the appellant and publish a pamphlet to the effect that the electors should vote for him and not for respondent no. 3.	None
Accordingly a pamphlet to that effect was published and distributed in a meeting held on 23rd February, 72 at Bhainsdehi in which meeting the withdrawal from contest of respondent no. 3 was announced and the voters were asked to vote for respondent no.	None
I.	None
The question for consideration is whether the findings aforesaid fit in the frame of definition of Bribery in Section 123 (1) (A) (b) of the Act.	None
The High Court has rightly pointed out that the case was not covered by subclause (a) of clause (A) as respondent no. 3 was not made to withdraw from being a candidate at the election.	None
This view of the High Court is now squarely supported by the decision of this Court in shri Umed v. Raj Singh, AIR 1975 SC 43 which had overturned a contrary view taken in the case of Mohd.	None
Yunus saleem v. Shivkumar Shastri, AIR 1974 SC 1218 .	None
We now proceed to read in full Section 123 (1) (A) of the Act.(1)Bribery.	None
that is to say(A) any gift, offer or promise by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent of a candidate or his election agent of any gratification, to any person whosoever, with the object, directly or indirectly of inducing (a) a person to stand or not to stand as, or to withdraw or not to withdraw from being a candidate at an election, or(b) an elector to vote or refrain from voting at an election or as a reward to(i) a person for having so stood or not stood, or for having withdrawn or not having withdrawn his candidature or(ii) an elector for having voted or refrained from voting6.	None
We shall discuss the relevant law shorn of the addenda and the qualifying words in the above extract.	None
Payment of any gratification by a candidate to any person not necessarily a person mentioned in subclause (a) or an elector mentioned in subclause (b) with the object of directly or indirectly inducing the person or an elector mentioned in those subclauses will make it a bribery within the meaning of the said word.	None
It is significant to note from subclauses (i) and (ii) of clause (A) that postfacto payment of any gratification as a reward will be bribery only if it is paid to the person or the elector mentioned in these subclauses.	Reasoning
But does it lead to the conclusion that payment of any gratification to any person other than an elector in all circumstances would be deemed to be with the object of indirectly inducing an elector to vote or refrain from voting at an election?	Issue
If money is paid to an elector to vote for a particular candidate undoubtedly it is a direct inducement to him to vote at an election.	None
If money is paid to a third person in which payment of money an elector has got any direct or indirect interest and which induces him to vote at an election in favour of a particular candidate then also the inducement is brought about as a result of the payment of the gratification.	Reasoning
But the point of difficulty may arise where any gratification is void by or on behalf of a candidate to a third person for procuring some votes of some electors who may be under his (third persons) influence.	Reasoning
Whether in such a case the payment has got any indirect inducement to an elector to vote at an election we are inclined to think that mere payment of any gratification to a third person for securing or procuring some votes in favour of a particular candidate without the establishment of any nexus between the money and the inducement to the voter will not be sufficient to prove that the voter is indirectly induced on account of the payment of gratification to the third person.	Issue
The dictionary meaning of the word induce is to prevail on, persuade.	Reasoning
The gratification must have some connection or reflection, direct or indirect, in persuading the voter to vote or refrain from voting at an election.	Reasoning
If the inducement to the voter is not caused by the payment of the gratification to a third person but by the persuasion or influence (not undue influence) of such third person it will not be possible to say that the gratification had any indirect inducement to the voter.	Reasoning
Payment of any gratification to any person to work or canvass at an election is outside the ambit of the definition.	Reasoning
It will make little difference if the worker or the canvassor on payment of gratification promises or indulges in falltalk of securing or procuring some votes for a particular candidate.	Reasoning
If the inducement to the voter is free from the shade or colour of the gratification paid to the third person, it will not be bribery.	Reasoning
If, however, the inducement in a given case is coloured or shaded by the payment of the gratification to a third person then it would be an indirect inducement to the voter himself within the frame of the definition.	Reasoning
In other words it is the fact of payment to the third person that must induce the voter.	Reasoning
It is not enough that the third person induces the voter.	Reasoning
The frame of any definition, more often than not, is capable of being made flexible.	Reasoning
But the precision and certainty in law requires that it should not be made loose and kept tight as far as possible.7.	Reasoning
On the facts found in this case, respondent No. 3 after having retired from the contest merely canvassed to the voters some of whom may be his so called voters, to vote for the appellant.	Reasoning
Distribution of the pamphlet and announcement in the meeting held on the 23rd February, 72 to that end did not transgress the limit and make the act an indirect inducement to the voters to cast vote for the appellant on account of payment of the gratification by him to the third respondent.8.	Reasoning
In Ghasi Ram v. Dal Singh, (1968) 3	None
SCR 102 (AIR 1968 SC 1191 ), followed in Om Prabha Jain v.Abnash Chand, (1968) 3	None
SCR 111 (AIR 1968 SC 1083 ) another decision in the same Volume at page111, it was pointed out by Hidayatullah J, as he then was, at p. 110.	None
(of SCR)  (at p. 1196 of AIR).	None
The money was not distributed among the voters directly but was given to Panchayats and the public at large.	None
It was to be used for the good of those for and those against the candidate.	None
No doubt they had the effect of pushing forward his claims but that was inevitable even if no money was spent, but good administration changed the peoples condition.	None
We cannot, therefore, hold that there was any corrupt practice.	None
If there was good evidence that the Minister bargained directly or indirectly for votes, the result might have been different but there was no such evidence.	None
It would thus be noticed that there must be a bargain for votes either directly with the voters or indirectly through someone else.	None
The voter may not be a direct party in the bargain but must be shown to have an indirect interest in it.9.	None
In Abdul Hussains case (Civil Appeal No. 915 of 1974) (reported in AIR 1975 SC 1612 )	None
Krishna Iyer J., in his judgment delivered on his and on behalf of Sarkaria J, did not find the fact proved in that case to bring it within the ambit of S. 123 (1) (A) (b).	None
The third learned Judge (A. Alagiriswami J.) did not record any finding to the contrary.	None
Even so while interpreting the scope and ambit of S. 123 (1) of the Act certain observations were made in the majority judgment which were pressed into service by respondent no. 1 while the others were relied on by the appellant.	None
Accepting the argument of Mr. Garg (vide page 1995 of the cyclostyled copy issued by the Supreme Court Bar Association) AIR 1975 SC 1612 it was said what the law aims at is a blow on the purchase of the franchise by direct or indirect methods.	None
You may buy influence of important persons which is bad in morality but not yet in law.	None
Another passage (vide page 1996 of the cyclostyled copy) AIR 1975 SC 1612 which occurs in that judgment runs thus The crucial point is the nexus between the gratification and the voters, one being the consideration for the other, direct or indirect.	None
The two passages extracted above squarely supported the contention of the appellant.	None
While a few others which are being quoted below were pressed into service by learned counsel for respondent no. 1.	None
The said passages at page 1995 areIf the candidate pays money to a V.I.P. of the locality to use his good offices and canvass votes for him, it is a borderline case, but if the money is paid as consideration for votes promised to be secured by him using his sway, it is bribery even though indirectly exercised.	None
If the Mulla had been paid the money striking a bargain for getting the votes in his ambit of influence, it is electoral corruption.	None
On the other hand, if it is money received for the purpose of organising effectively the election campaign by hiring workers, going round the places in car, meeting people and persuading them to vote for the candidate, it is proper election expense.	None
In between these two extremes lies the case of a man who just receives a large sum of money, pockets it himself and promises to use his good offices to secure votes.	None
This is a gray area.	None
We are not called upon to pronounce on it in this caseThe touchstone in all these cases of payment of gratification is to find out whether the money is paid in reasonable measure for work to be done or services to be rendered.	None
Secondly, whether the services as offered amount to a bargain for getting votes or merely to do propaganda or to persuade voters to vote for the candidate, it being left to the voters not to respond to the persuasion.	None
It is a plain case if a voters to vote paid for his vote, It is direct.	None
It is equally plain if the payment is made to a close relation as inducement for the vote, The same is the case if it is paid to a local chief on the under standing that he will get plead the votes in his pocket borough in consideration for the payment.	None
The third learned Judge in his separate note did not join in the views expressed in the passages just extracted above from the majority decision and said I consider it, therefore, unnecessary to discuss whether if money is paid or offered as consideration for votes promised to be secured by a person using his influence it is bribery or not.	None
It is a good policy not to discuss in a judgment questions which do not arise out of the facts of the case.	None
The observations of Krishna Iyer J, which were relied on behalf of respondent no. 1 may occasion a debate or dispute if in a given case the facts so warrant.	None
But it will be a futile exercise to do so in this case as the findings recorded against the appellant by the High Court are clearly outside the observations relied on by respondent no.	None
1.	Facts
It was not a case where money was paid to respondent no. 3 as consideration for votes promised or as a bargain for getting votes.	None
It was a money paid to him to retire from the contest and to do propaganda and persuade the voters to vote for the appellant.	Reasoning
In spite of the propaganda and the appeal of respondent no. 3	Reasoning
the voters were left free not to respond to his persuasion.	Reasoning
In no view of the matter, therefore, it is possible to sustain the judgment of the High Court holding the appellant guilty of corrupt practice within the meaning of S. 123 (1) (A) (b) of the Act.	Reasoning
That being so, it is plain that respondent no. 3 also must be exonerated of the charge levelled and found against him of bribery within the meaning of Section 123 (1) (B) (b).10.	Reasoning
In the result the appeal is allowed with costs payable by respondent no. 1 and the judgment and order of the High Court are set aside.11.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
