 Sathasivam, J. This appeal by Union of India arises out of the final judgment and order dated 24.04.2006 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Appeal No. 219 of 2006 in Arbitration Petition No. 274 of 2005 whereby the Division Bench of the High Court dismissed their appeal.	None
Brief facts On 16.05.1988, the respondent was awarded with a contract for the work of Provision of Signaling Arrangements at C Class Stations on IgatpuriBhusawal Section and 2 C Stations on BhusawalBadnera Section of Bhusawal Division of Central Railway at the cost of Rs.18,10,400/. On completion of the contract, the respondent raised certain disputes claims by filing Suit No. 2822 of 1993 before the High Court and demanded for adjudication through arbitration.	Facts
The High Court directed the General Manager of the Central Railway to appoint an arbitrator and refer the disputes for adjudication.	Facts
Since the Arbitrator appointed could not deliberate the matter within the time limit, the respondent invoked the jurisdiction of the Umpire.	Facts
The Umpire, by order dated 26.04.2005, gave award for Claim Nos. 1, 3, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 13 and rejected Claim Nos. 2, 5, 7 14 and mentioned that a bank guarantee towards security deposit against claim No. 4 is to be returned.(b) Challenging the award given by the Umpire for Claim Nos. 11 13, the appellant herein filed Arbitration Petition No. 274 of 2005 before the High Court.	Facts
The learned Single Judge of the High Court, vide order dated 06.12.2005 dismissed their petition.(c)	Facts
Aggrieved by the order passed by the learned single Judge, the appellant herein filed an appeal being Arbitration Appeal No. 219 of 2006 before the Division Bench of the High Court.	Facts
The Division Bench, by impugned order dated 24.04.2006, dismissed the appeal.	Facts
Challenging the said order, the Union of India preferred this appeal by way of special leave before this Court.	Facts
Heard Mr. A. S. Chandhiok, learned Additional Solicitor General for the Union of India and Mr. Ramesh Babu M.R., learned counsel for the respondent.	None
Before the High Court as well as before us, the appellant projected their case only with regard to interest that was granted by the arbitrator and confirmed by the High Court.	Issue
Therefore, the only point for consideration in this appeal is whether an arbitrator has jurisdiction to grant interest despite the agreement prohibiting the same?	Issue
Though the appellant has challenged the award of the Umpire in respect of Claim Nos. 11 and 13, they are mainly concerned about grant of interest hence there is no need to traverse all the factual details except the required one which we have adverted to.	None
According to Mr. A.S. Chandhiok, learned ASG, in view of clause 1.15 of the General Conditions of the Contract between the parties, the arbitrator does not have the power to award interest pendente lite.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said clause reads as under 1.15 Interest on Amounts  	None
No interest will be payable upon the Earnest Money or the Security Deposit or amounts payable to the Contractor under the Contract but Government Securities deposited in terms of clause 1.14.4 will be repayable with interest accrued thereon.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned ASG, in view of the abovementioned clause, no interest is payable on the amount payable to the Contractor under the contract.	None
On the other hand, Mr. Ramesh Babu M.R., learned counsel appearing for the respondent submitted that irrespective of the bar in the contract arbitrator has power to award interest for which he strongly relied on the decision of this Court in Board of Trustees for the Port of Calcutta vs. EngineersDeSpaceAge, (1996) 1 SCC 516 and Madnani Construction Corporation Private Limited vs. Union of India and Others, (2010) 1 SCC 549.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have already extracted the relevant clause wherein the words amounts payable to the Contractor under the contract are of paramount importance.	None
If there is no prohibition in the arbitration agreement to exclude the jurisdiction of the arbitrator to entertain a claim for interest on the amount due under the contract, the arbitrator is free to consider and award interest in respect of the period.	None
If there is a prohibition in the agreement to pay the interest, in that event, the arbitrator cannot grant the interest.	None
Clause 1.15 prohibits payment of interest on the amount payable to the contractor under the contract.	None
It is not in dispute that the provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1940 alone are applicable to the case on hand.	None
Now, let us consider various decisions of this Court dealing with similar prohibition in the agreement for grant of interest.	None
In Secretary, Irrigation Department, Government of Orissa and Others vs. G.C. Roy, (1992) 1 SCC 508 , the Constitution Bench had considered Section 29 of the Arbitration Act, 1940 which deals with interest pendente lite.	None
After analyzing the scheme of the Act and various earlier decisions, the Constitution Bench considered the very same issue, namely, whether an arbitrator has power to award interest pendente lite and, if so, on what principle.	None
The relevant paragraphs are extracted hereunder	None
The question still remains whether arbitrator has the power to award interest pendente lite, and if so on what principle.	None
We must reiterate that we are dealing with the situation where the agreement does not provide for grant of such interest nor does it prohibit such grant.	None
In other words, we are dealing with a case where the agreement is silent as to award of interest.	None
On a conspectus of aforementioned decisions, the following principles emerge(i) A person deprived of the use of money to which he is legitimately entitled has a right to be compensated for the deprivation, call it by any name.	None
It may be called interest, compensation or damages.	None
This basic consideration is as valid for the period the dispute is pending before the arbitrator as it is for the period prior to the arbitrator entering upon the reference.	None
This is the principle of Section 34, Civil Procedure Code and there is no reason or principle to hold otherwise in the case of arbitrator.(ii)	None
An arbitrator is an alternative form (sic forum) for resolution of disputes arising between the parties.	None
If so, he must have the power to decide all the disputes or differences arising between the parties.	None
If the arbitrator has no power to award interest pendente lite, the party claiming it would have to approach the court for that purpose, even though he may have obtained satisfaction in respect of other claims from the arbitrator.	Arguments of Petitioner
This would lead to multiplicity of proceedings.(iii)	None
An arbitrator is the creature of an agreement.	None
It is open to the parties to confer upon him such powers and prescribe such procedure for him to follow, as they think fit, so long as they are not opposed to law.	None
(The proviso to Section 41 and Section 3 of Arbitration Act illustrate this point).	None
All the same, the agreement must be in conformity with law.	None
The arbitrator must also act and make his award in accordance with the general law of the land and the agreement.(iv)	None
Over the years, the English and Indian courts have acted on the assumption that where the agreement does not prohibit and a party to the reference makes a claim for interest, the arbitrator must have the power to award interest pendente lite.	None
Thawardas has not been followed in the later decisions of this Court.	None
It has been explained and distinguished on the basis that in that case there was no claim for interest but only a claim for unliquidated damages.	None
It has been said repeatedly that observations in the said judgment were not intended to lay down any such absolute or universal rule as they appear to, on first impression.	None
Until Jena case almost all the courts in the country had upheld the power of the arbitrator to award interest pendente lite.	None
Continuity and certainty is a highly desirable feature of law.(v)	None
Interest pendente lite is not a matter of substantive law, like interest for the period anterior to reference (pre reference period).	None
For doing complete justice between the parties, such power has always been inferred.44.	None
Having regard to the above consideration, we think that the following is the correct principle which should be followed in this behalfWhere the agreement between the parties does not prohibit grant of interest and where a party claims interest and that dispute (along with the claim for principal amount or independently) is referred to the arbitrator, he shall have the power to award interest pendente lite.	None
This is for the reason that in such a case it must be presumed that interest was an implied term of the agreement between the parties and therefore when the parties refer all their disputes  or refer the dispute as to interest as such  to the arbitrator, he shall have the power to award interest.	None
This does not mean that in every case the arbitrator should necessarily award interest pendente lite.	Reasoning
It is a matter within his discretion to be exercised in the light of all the facts and circumstances of the case, keeping the ends of justice in view.	None
In Executive Engineer, Dhenkanal Minor Irrigation Division, Orissa and Others vs. N.C Budharaj (deceased) by LRs and Others, (2001) 2 SCC 721 , another Constitution Bench considered payment of interest for prereference period in respect of cases arising when Interest Act, 1839 was in force.	None
The following conclusion in para 26 is relevant which reads thus For all the reasons stated above, we answer the reference by holding that the arbitrator appointed with or without the intervention of the court, has jurisdiction to award interest, on the sums found due and payable, for the prereference period, in the absence of any specific stipulation or prohibition in the contract to claim or grant any such interest.	None
The decision in Jena case taking a contra view does not lay down the correct position and stands overruled, prospectively, which means that this decision shall not entitle any party nor shall it empower any court to reopen proceedings which have already become final, and apply only to any pending proceedings.	None
No costs.	None
(Emphasis supplied).	None
In the earlier paras, we have referred to the stand taken by the learned counsel for the respondent and reliance based on the decision reported in Board of Trustees for the Port of Calcutta (supra).	None
It is true that in that decision, this Court has held that arbitrator has jurisdiction to interpret the clauses of the contract and to decide whether interest pendente lite could be awarded by him.	None
The short question that arose in that case was that the arbitrator had awarded interest pendente lite notwithstanding the prohibition contained in the contract against the payment of interest on delayed payments.	None
Ultimately, the twoJudge Bench of this Court has concluded that irrespective of the terms of the contract, the arbitrator was well within his jurisdiction in awarding interest pendente lite.	None
It is useful to point out that the ratio in that decision was considered by this Court in Sayeed Ahmed and Company vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and Others, (2009) 12 SCC 26.	None
While considering the very same issue, particularly, specific clause in the agreement prohibiting interest pendente lite, this Court considered the very same decision i.e. Board of Trustees for the Port of Calcutta (supra).	None
After adverting to the clause in the Board of Trustees for the Port of Calcutta (supra) and the Constitution Bench in G.C. Roys case (supra), this Court concluded as under The observation in EngineersDeSpaceAge that the term of the contract merely prohibits the department employer from paying interest to the contractor for delayed payment but once the matter goes to the arbitrator, the discretion of the arbitrator is not in any manner stifled by the terms of the contract and the arbitrator will be entitled to consider and grant the interest pendente lite, cannot be used to support an outlandish argument that bar on the Government or department paying interest is not a bar on the arbitrator awarding interest.	None
Whether the provision in the contract bars the employer from entertaining any claim for interest or bars the contractor from making any claim for interest, it amounts to a clear prohibition regarding interest.	None
The provision need not contain another bar prohibiting the arbitrator from awarding interest.	None
The observations made in the context of interest pendente lite cannot be used out of contract.24.	None
The learned counsel for the appellant next contended on the basis of the above observations in EngineersDeSpace Age, that even if Clause G1.09 is held to bar interest in the prereference period, it should be held not to apply to the pendente lite period, that is, from 1431997 to 3172001.	None
He contended that the award of interest during the pendency of the reference was within the discretion of the arbitrator and therefore, the award of interest for that period could not have been interfered with by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the Constitution Bench decisions in G.C. Roy and N.C.	Arguments of Petitioner
Budharaj rendered before and after the decision in EngineersDeSpaceAge, it is doubtful whether the observation in EngineersDeSpaceAge in a case arising under the Arbitration Act, 1940 that the arbitrator could award interest pendente lite, ignoring the express bar in the contract, is good law.	Arguments of Petitioner
But that need not be considered further as this is a case under the new Act where there is a specific provision regarding award of interest by the arbitrator.	Arguments of Petitioner
Considering the specific prohibition in the agreement as discussed and interpreted by the Constitution Bench, we are in respectful agreement with the view expressed in Sayeed Ahmed and Company (supra) and we cannot possibly agree with the observation in Board of Trustees for the Port of Calcutta (supra) in a case arising under the Arbitration Act, 1940 that the arbitrator could award interest pendente lite ignoring the express bar in the contract.	None
In Union of India vs. Saraswat Trading Agency and Others, (2009) 16 SCC 504 , though it was under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, this Court has considered elaborately about the legal position in regard to interest after adverting to all the earlier decisions and basing reliance on clause 31 of the agreement held In the case in hand Clause 31 of the agreement is materially different.	None
It bars payment of any interest or damage to the contractor for any reason whatsoever.	None
We are, therefore, clearly of the view that no prereference or pendente lite interest was payable to the respondent on the amount under Item 3 and the arbitrators award allowing prereference and pendente lite interest on that amount was plainly in breach of the express terms of the agreement.	None
The order of the High Court insofar as prereference and pendente lite interest on the amount under Item 3 is concerned is, therefore, unsustainable.	None
At the end of the argument, learned counsel for the respondent heavily relied on the recent decision of this Court in Madnani Construction Corporation Private Limited (supra) which arose under the Arbitration Act, 1940.	Arguments of Respondent
There also, Clause 30 of SCC and Clause 52 of GCC prohibits payment of interest.	Arguments of Respondent
Though the Bench relied on all the earlier decisions and considered the very same clause as to which we are now discussing, upheld the order awarding interest by the arbitrator de hors to specific bar in the agreement.	Arguments of Respondent
It is relevant to point out that the decision of Madnani Construction Corporation Private Limited (supra) was cited before another Bench of this Court in Sree Kamatchi Amman Constructions vs. Divisional Railway Manager (Works), Palghat and Others, (2010) 8 SCC 767 , wherein the decision in Madnani Construction Corporation Private Limited (supra) was very much discussed and considered.	Arguments of Respondent
After adverting to all the earlier decisions including the Constitution Bench judgments, this Court has analyzed the effect of Madnani Construction Corporation Private Limited (supra).	Arguments of Respondent
The following discussion and ultimate conclusion are relevant In Madnani the arbitrator had awarded interest pendente lite, that is, from the date of appointment of arbitrator to the date of award.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court had interfered with the same on the ground that there was a specific prohibition in the contract regarding awarding of interest.	Arguments of Respondent
This Court following the decision in EngineersDeSpaceAge reversed the said rejection and held as follows(Madnani case, SCC pp. 56061, para 39)39.	Arguments of Respondent
In the instant case also the relevant clauses, which have been quoted above, namely, Clause 16(2) of GCC and Clause 30 of SCC do not contain any prohibition on the arbitrator to grant interest.	None
Therefore, the High Court was not right in interfering with the arbitrators award on the matter of interest on the basis of the aforesaid clauses.	None
We therefore, on a strict construction of those clauses and relying on the ratio in Engineers find that the said clauses do not impose any bar on the arbitrator in granting interest.18.	None
At the outset it should be noticed that EngineersDeSpaceAge and Madnani arose under the old Arbitration Act, 1940 which did not contain a provision similar to Section 31(7) of the new Act.	None
This Court, in Sayeed Ahmed held that the decisions rendered under the old Act may not be of assistance to decide the validity of grant of interest under the new Act.	None
The logic in EngineersDeSpaceAge was that while the contract governed the interest from the date of cause of action to date of reference, the arbitrator had the discretion to decide the rate of interest from the date of reference to date of award and he was not bound by any prohibition regarding interest contained in the contract, insofar as pendente lite period is concerned.	None
This Court in Sayeed Ahmed held that the decision in EngineersDeSpaceAge would not apply to cases arising under the new Act.	None
We extract below, the relevant portion from Sayeed Ahmed(SCC p. 36, paras 2324)23.	None
The observation in EngineersDeSpaceAge that the term of the contract merely prohibits the department employer from paying interest to the contractor for delayed payment but once the matter goes to the arbitrator, the discretion of the arbitrator is not in any manner stifled by the terms of the contract and the arbitrator will be entitled to consider and grant the interest pendente lite, cannot be used to support an outlandish argument that bar on the Government or department paying interest is not a bar on the arbitrator awarding interest.	None
Whether the provision in the contract bars the employer from entertaining any claim for interest or bars the contractor from making any claim for interest, it amounts to a clear prohibition regarding interest.	None
The provision need not contain another bar prohibiting the arbitrator from awarding interest.	None
The observations made in the context of interest pendente lite cannot be used out of contract.24.	None
The learned counsel for the appellant next contended on the basis of the above observations in EngineersDeSpaceAge, that even if Clause G 1.09 is held to bar interest in the prereference period, it should be held not to apply to the pendente lite period, that is, from 1431997 to 3172001.	None
He contended that the award of interest during the pendency of the reference was within the discretion of the arbitrator and therefore, the award of interest for that period could not have been interfered with by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the Constitution Bench decisions in G.C. Roy and N.C.	Arguments of Petitioner
Budharaj rendered before and after the decision in EngineersDeSpaceAge, it is doubtful whether the observation in EngineersDeSpaceAge in a case arising under the Arbitration Act, 1940 that the arbitrator could award interest pendente lite, ignoring the express bar in the contract, is good law.	Arguments of Petitioner
But that need not be considered further as this is a case under the new Act where there is a specific provision regarding award of interest by the arbitrator.	Arguments of Petitioner
The same reasoning applies to the decision in Madnani also as that also relates to a case under the old Act and did not independently consider the issue but merely relied upon the decision in EngineersDeSpaceAge.19.	None
Section 37(1) of the new Act by using the words unless otherwise agreed by the parties categorically clarifies that the arbitrator is bound by the terms of the contract insofar as the award of interest from the date of cause of action to the date of award.	None
Therefore, where the parties had agreed that no interest shall be payable, the Arbitral Tribunal cannot award interest between the date when the cause of action arose to the date of award.20.	None
We are of the view that the decisions in EngineersDeSpaceAge and Madnani are inapplicable for yet another reason.	None
In EngineersDeSpaceAge	None
and Madnani the arbitrator had awarded interest for the pendente lite period.	Arguments of Respondent
This Court upheld the award of such interest under the old Act on the ground that the arbitrator had the discretion to decide whether interest should be awarded or not during the pendente lite period and he was not bound by the contractual terms insofar as the interest for the pendente lite period.	None
But in the instant case the Arbitral Tribunal has refused to award interest for the pendente lite period.	None
Where the Arbitral Tribunal has exercised its discretion and refused award of interest for the period pendente lite, even if the principles in those two cases were applicable, the award of the arbitrator could not be interfered with.	None
On this ground also the decisions in EngineersDeSpaceAge and Madnani are inapplicable Inasmuch as we have already expressed similar view as mentioned above and conveyed our inability to apply the reasoning in Madnani Construction Corporation Private Limited (supra), we fully endorse the view expressed in Sree Kamatchi Amman Constructions (supra).14) In the light of the above discussion, following conclusion emergeReliance based on the ratio in Board of Trustees for the Port of Calcutta (supra) is unacceptable since the said view has been overruled in Sayeed Ahmed and Company (supra) and insofar as the ratio in Madnani Construction Corporation Private Limited (supra) which is also unacceptable for the reasons mentioned in the earlier paras, we reject the stand taken by the counsel for the respondent.	Reasoning
On the other hand, we fully accept the stand of the Union of India as rightly projected by Mr. A.S. Chandhiok, learned ASG.	Reasoning
We reiterate that where the parties had agreed that no interest shall be payable, the arbitrator cannot award interest for the amounts payable to the contractor under the contract.	Reasoning
Where the agreement between the parties does not prohibit grant of interest and where a party claims interest and the said dispute is referred to the arbitrator, he shall have the power to award interest pendent elite.	Reasoning
As observed by the Constitution Bench in G.C. Roys case (supra), in such a case, it must be presumed that interest was an implied term of the agreement between the parties.	Reasoning
However, this does not mean that in every case, the arbitrator should necessarily award interest pendente lite.	Reasoning
In the subsequent decision of the Constitution Bench, i.e., N.C.	Reasoning
Budharajs case (supra), it has been reiterated that in the absence of any specific stipulation or prohibition in the contract to claim or grant any such interest, the arbitrator is free to award interest.15)	Reasoning
In the light of the above principle and in view of the specific prohibition of contract contained in Clause 1.15, the arbitrator ceases to have the power to grant interest.	Reasoning
We also clarify that the Arbitration Act, 1940 does not contain any specific provision relating to the power of arbitrator to award interest.	Reasoning
However, in the Arbitration Conciliation Act, 1996, there is a specific provision with regard to award of interest by the arbitrator.	Reasoning
The bar under clause 1.15 is absolute and interest cannot be awarded without rewriting the contract.16)	Reasoning
For the aforesaid reasons, we set aside the award of the arbitrator granting interest in respect of the amount payable to the contractor under the contract as well as the order of the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court confirming the same.17)	Decision
Consequently, the appeal is allowed to the extent pointed out above with no order as to costs.	Decision
