Ruma Pal, J. The dispute in these matters arises out of an exemption which had been granted by the Central Government to new industries by Notification No. 32/99CE dated 8th July 1999 issued under Section 5A of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (referred to hereafter as the Act).	Issue
The parties in the various proceedings which are being disposed of by this judgment, represent industries manufacturing cigarettes on the one hand (whom we will refer to as the petitioners) and the Union of India and the excise authorities on the other (who are described as the respondents).	Issue
Almost all the petitioners are job workers for large tobacco companies.	Issue
They set up their units under agreements with the large tobacco companies and admittedly produced the cigarettes with the brand names of those companies.	Issue
The few exceptions to this are noted subsequently.	Issue
In December, 1997 the Government of India had announced a separate industrial policy for the North Eastern Region of the country which proposed to stimulate synergetic development of industries in the region by giving a package of incentives which included exemption from excise duties, transport subsidies, capital investment subsidies, interest subsidies and other benefits.3.	Facts
Pursuant to this policy, a number of notifications were issued by the concerned Ministries in the Government, the relevant ones for our purpose being the Excise Notifications Nos. 32/99 and 33/99 dated 8th July 1999 by which diverse benefits were given.	Facts
Briefly stated, under the first notification all excisable goods were exempt from duty under the Act if the goods were produced by new industrial units which commenced their commercial production on or after 24th December 1997 and were located in defined areas specified in the annexure to the notification.	Facts
The benefit was given for a period of 10 years from the date of publication of the notification or from the date of the commencement of commercial production whichever was later.	Facts
The second notification exempted goods produced in specified industries located in areas outside the growth centres.	Facts
The procedure envisaged for obtaining the exemption under both notifications was that the manufacturer of goods in such industrial units would have to pay excise duty and subsequently claim refund from the excise authorities.4.	Facts
A notification was issued on 31st December 1999, being Notification No. 45 of 1999 withdrawing the excise exemption to cigarettes.	Facts
However, the exemption was reintroduced on 17th January, 2000 by Notification No. 1 of 2001.5.	Facts
The petitioners set up units a specified growth centre and claimed the benefit of Notification No. 32/99.	Facts
This was allowed to them initially for the first few months.	Facts
However, from July to October, 2000 although some of the petitioners made payment of the excise duty, they were not refunded the amount.	Facts
Being aggrieved, the petitioners filed writ petitions before the Gauhati High Court.	Facts
An interim order was passed by the High Court on 19.1.2001 directing the provisional refund of the excise duty by the respondents to the petitioners.	Facts
Although the exemption was finally withdrawn in respect of cigarettes by Notification No. 1/2001 dated 22nd January 2001, the respondents prayer for vacating the interim order was rejected by the High Court by its order dated 8.2.2001.	Facts
While extending the time for the respondents to comply with the interim order, the High Court directed that in verifying the claims for refund, the State Government could not interfere with the exercise of powers of the excise authorities but made it clear that This is not to say that the concerned Assistant Commissioner or the Deputy Commissioner of Central Excise Department cannot take in to account any material furnished by the State Govt.	Facts
authorities in deciding as to whether exemption is due to a manufacturing claiming refund under the said Notification.	Facts
He may consider such material but the judgment will be that of the Assistant Commissioner or the Deputy Commissioner of Central Excise Department on the question as to whether the amount claimed by the manufacturer under the said Notification is entitled to exemption and refund under the Notification.	Facts
Relying on these observations separate orders were passed by the Assistant Commissioner rejecting the claims for refund of the petitioners for the months of July 2000 to January 2001 and also ordering recovery of the amounts already refunded during April to June 2000 forthwith.7.	Facts
He found that no unit without a Permanent Registration Certificate (PMT) issued by the Directorate of Industries Commerce, Government of Assam could legally go into commercial production and that the earlier order of refund passed on the basis of such misinformation misrepresentation of fact with regard to the date of commercial commencement of production would also be unjust incorrect and devoid of legal sanction.8.	Facts
The pending writ petitions were amended to incorporate a challenge to this order.	Facts
The writ petitions were allowed by the learned Single Judge on 17th May, 2002 who held that the petitioners were entitled to refund of excise duty on the cigarettes manufactured from the date of commercial production till the date the benefit was withdrawn by the Central Government in January 2001.	Facts
The judgment was affirmed on 4th April 2003 by the Division Bench in the writ appeal filed by the Union of India.	Facts
The Union of India has challenged the decision before us in the above noted appeals.9.	Facts
Immediately after the decision of the Division Bench of the Gauhati High Court, Section 154 of the Finance Act, 2003 was enacted by Parliament.	Facts
The section reads as follows Amendment of notifications issued under Section 5A of the Central Excise Act  (1)	Facts
The notifications of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue)	None
Nos.	Facts
G.S.R. 508(E), dated the 8th July, 1999 and G.S.R. 509(E), dated the 8th July, 1999, issued under subsection (1) of Section 5A of the Central Excise Act read with subsection (3) of Section 3 of the Additional Duties of Excise (Textiles and Textiles Articles) Act, 1978, by the Central Government shall stand amended and shall be deemed to have been amended in the manner as specified against each of them in column (3) of the Ninth Schedule, on and from the corresponding date specified in column (4) of that Schedule retrospectively, and accordingly, notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, decree or order of any Court, Tribunal or other authority, any action taken or anything done or purported to have been taken or done under the said notifications, shall be deemed to be and always to have been, for all purposes, as validly and effectively taken or done as if the notifications as amended by this subsection had been in force at all material times.	Facts
For the purposes of subsection (1), the Central Government shall have and shall be deemed to have the power to amend the notifications referred to in the said subsection with retrospective effect as if the Central Government had the power to amend the said notifications under subsection (1) of Section 5A of the Central Excise Act read with subsection (3) of Section 3 of the Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of Special Importance) Act, 1957 (58 of 1957) and subsection (3) of Section 3 of the Additional Duties of Excise (Textiles and Textile Articles) Act, 1978 (40 of 1978), retrospectively at all material times.(3)	Facts
No suit or other proceedings shall be maintained or continued in any court, tribunal or other authority for any action taken or anything done or omitted to be done, in respect of any goods under the said notifications, and no enforcement shall be made by any court, tribunal or other authority of any decree or order relating to such action taken or anything done or omitted to be done as if the amendments made by subsection (1) had been in force at all material times.(4) Recovery shall be made of all amounts of duty or interest or other charges which have not been collected or, as the case may be, which have been refunded but which would have been collected or, as the case may be, which would have not been refunded if the provisions of this section had been in force at all material times, within a period of thirty days from the day on which the Finance Bill, 2003 receives the assent of the President, and in the event of non payment of duty or interest or other charges so recoverable, interest at the rate of fifteen per cent, per annum shall be payable from the date immediately after the expiry of the said period of thirty days till the date of payment.	Facts
Explanation  For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that no act or omission on the part of any person shall be punishable as an offence which would not have been so punishable if the notifications referred to in subsection (1) had not been amended retrospectively by that subsection.	Facts
The Ninth Schedule referred to in Section 154(1) insofar as it is relevant seeks to amend Notification No. 32/99 dated 8th July, 1999 with effect from 8th July, 1999 by excluding cigarettes falling under Chapter 24 of the First Schedule or the Second Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985.	Facts
In other words, the exemptions available to the manufacturers of cigarettes from 1999 upto 27th January, 2001 (except for a short period between 31st December, 1999 and 17th January 2000 during which it was not available), was rescinded retrospectively.	Facts
This meant that the excise duties already refunded to the petitioners would be liable to be recovered, no further refund would be made and that the petitioners would be liable to pay the excise duties not paid when the exemption was in force i.e. between 8th July 1999 and 27th January 2001.11.	Facts
A second batch of writ petitions were filed by the petitioners before the High Court challenging Section 154 as being unconstitutional.	Facts
They were transferred to this Court at the instance of the Union of India and listed for hearing along with the appeals and are also being disposed of by this judgment.12.	Facts
If the challenge to the retrospective operation of Section 154 is rejected by us, any decision on the Union of Indias appeals from the judgment of the High Court would necessarily be rendered infructuous.	Facts
The petitioners challenge to Section 154, therefore, is considered at the outset.	Facts
Mr. Harish N. Salve appeared for	Arguments of Petitioner
M s. R.C. Tobacco Pvt. Ltd. (referred to briefly as RCT) in Transfer Case No. 27 of 2004, RCT manufacturers cigarettes as a job worker under an agreement with	Arguments of Petitioner
M s. Godfrey Philips India Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Salve said that there was no dispute that RCT was a new industrial unit within the meaning of Notification No. 32 of 1999.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also submitted that the exemption was granted without any condition attached except that the unit must be a new unit and must be located in one of the growth centres etc.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is said that the High Court had correctly held that RCT fulfilled all the prerequisites for grant of the refund.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is said that the inclusion of tobacco as an exempted industry was not by accident.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact, when the exemption was withdrawn in December 2000, it was consciously reintroduced in January 2001.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Salve conceded the legislative competence of Parliament to enact laws that have retrospective effect.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, it is contended the retrospective particularly of subordinate legislation must be subjected to greater scrutiny.	Arguments of Petitioner
No reasons were given for retrospectively removing a benefit consciously granted.	Arguments of Petitioner
He says that where the retrospective legislation is unreasonable it would violate Article 14 and 19 of the Constitution and would have to be struck down as unconstitutional.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that a change in policy, which is sought to be given a retrospective effect and which seeks to unsettle settled rights and to deprive people of benefits already enjoyed and causes financial burdens would clearly be unreasonable and arbitrary.	Arguments of Petitioner
The unreasonableness was evident from the flipflop of the Union of India in issuing notifications granting, then withdrawing, again granting, before finally withdrawing the benefit in respect of cigarettes in the short space of about a year and a half.	Arguments of Petitioner
The final withdrawal of the exemption effected by Section 154 was also followed by the regrant of exemptions from duties above 8 to tobacco products other than cigarettes.	Arguments of Petitioner
This erratic behaviour was, according to Mr. Salve, the ground on which this Court in Tata Motors vs. Maharashtra (2004) 4 SCC 783 struck down retrospective legislation as arbitrary and unconstitutional.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that although promissory estoppel operates only against the executive and not against statute, when the legislature violates promises and representations made by the government, it is a facet of unreasonableness that must be taken into account in evaluating the constitutionality of the law under Articles 14 and 19.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is argued that if the Government subsequently goes back on the representations made in a tax exemption Notification by causing Parliament to enact a law with retrospective effect to reclaim the benefits so conferred, then the reasonableness of the law must certainly be judged in the light of the representations made by the Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. R. Nariman appearing on behalf of Kreesna Industries P. Ltd. in Transfer Case	Arguments of Petitioner
No. 32 of 2004 has supported Mr. Salve and adopted his arguments.	Arguments of Petitioner
His client manufactures cigarettes under an agreement with ITC Limited.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Narimans submission is that the fact that the industrial units were set up by job workers under an agreement was an irrelevant consideration as far as the industrial policy as declared by the Central Government and the Notification No. 32 of 1999 were concerned.	Arguments of Petitioner
This was the concurrent finding of both the courts below.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is said that the Union of India had full knowledge of the circumstances under which his client set up the industrial unit and gave the industry the benefit of the notification after being satisfied that all prerequisites under the notification had been fulfilled.	Arguments of Petitioner
As far as the retrospective denial of the exemption is concerned, it is said that it stands on a different footing from a validating act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The former amounted to an imposition of tax for the first time whereas the latter merely rectified a defect in the statute by which the assessee was, from the outset, intended to be made liable.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance has been placed on the observations of Beg, CJ in Madan Mohan Pathak vs. Union of India (1978(3)	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 334 at 344 as well as the dissenting view of AN Sen, J in Lohia Machines Ltd. vs. Union of India (1985) 2 SCC 197.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that in the present case the retrospectivity was harsh and excessive since there is in fact a retrospective imposition of excise duty.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that the justification for such retrospective imposition of a tax must be overwhelming.	Arguments of Petitioner
No such overriding consideration had been disclosed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Furthermore, the unit would be crippled if it were asked to pay the excise duty now.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any event, it is submitted that after the enactment of Section 154, a demand was made for the amount refunded and for payment of excise duty for the remaining period.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Nariman, the demand which was raised cannot be sustained as it was made without issuing any show cause notice and in contravention of Section 11A of Central Excise Act, 1944.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has relied on the decisions in East India Commercial Co. Ltd. vs. The Collector of Customs, Calcutta 1963(3)	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 338 as well as M s. J.K. Cotton Spinning and Weaving Mills Ltd. vs. Union of India (1987) Supp.	Arguments of Petitioner
SCC 350 para 31, National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd. vs. Union of India and others (2003) 5 SCC 23 para 29 in support of the submission.15.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Dave appearing on behalf of North East Tobacco Company in Transfer Case No. 25 of 2004 has claimed not to be a job worker for any other company.	Arguments of Petitioner
he says that unlike most other units his clients had not left the State of Assam after the denial of exemption of excise duty.	Arguments of Petitioner
While adopting the arguments of Mr. Salve and Mr. Nariman, it is his submission that Section 11A of the Central Excise Act, 1985 was clearly attracted to the case and the noncompliance with the provisions thereof rendered the demand inoperative.	Arguments of Petitioner
This argument of Mr. Dave is sought to be sustained by the decision in M s. J.K. Cotton Spinning and Weaving Mills Ltd. vs. Union of India and others 1987 (Supp) SCC 350 .	Arguments of Petitioner
The benefit of the exemption as opposed to other units had been passed on to his clients customers	Arguments of Petitioner
and, it is submitted, it would be inequitable to impose excise duty retrospectively at this stage.16.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Goswami appeared on behalf of M s. Kaziranga Tobacoo Products (P) Ltd. and New Zone India (P) Ltd. in Transfer Case Nos. 23 and 24 of 2004.	Arguments of Petitioner
The two companies are job workers for Vazir Sultan.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is claimed that the units were set up by local persons who had made huge investments after borrowing money for land and machinery and had been granted the relief of exemption after a full disclosure of all the facts to the excise authorities.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact whatever benefits had been obtained, had been utilized by the unit to promote other industries in the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Goswami also submitted that the retrospective imposition of excise duty after three years was unreasonable as has been held in Chairman, Railway Board others vs. C.R. Rangadhamaiah and others (1997) 6 SCC 623 at 638.	Arguments of Petitioner
The policy of granting such exemption was the outcome of experts opinion and after the exemption was reintroduced in respect of cigarettes in January, 2000, it was extended to four other North Eastern States namely Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Manipur before its final withdrawal in January 2001.	Arguments of Petitioner
Similarly, the A.S.S. Cigarette Company which was a job worker under an agreement with Godfrey Phillips India has stated in TC No. 26 of 2004 that their Unit was set up by local industrialists and that they had deposited the excise duty after borrowing and since the withdrawal of the exemption in 2001 they had been manufacturing nontobacco products.	None
New Tobacco Company in TC No. 36 of 2004 has claimed that it is not a job worker and in fact the unit still continues to operate in Assam but has stopped the manufacture of cigarettes.	None
ABN Company in TP(C) No.151 of 2004 has said that it has closed down the manufacture of cigarettes after the withdrawal of the exemption.	None
Mr. A.K. Ganguly has appeared on behalf of Union of India and sought to justify the validity of Section 154 by saying that the Section merely gave effect to what was all along the intention behind the Notification No. 32 of 1999.	Arguments of Respondent
The object of the industrial policy declared in 1997 was to give long lasting benefit to the State in the form of increased investments in industries with consequential benefits by way of increased employment opportunities to the local population.	Arguments of Respondent
The grant of benefits was part of a package deal with the State getting enduring benefits in return for a short term loss of revenue.	Arguments of Respondent
The operation of the notification did not attain this objective.	Arguments of Respondent
The manufacture of cigarettes was a controlled industry.	Arguments of Respondent
The large tobacco companies avoided all the controls by setting up these industrial units and taking undue advantage of the benefits granted by the exemption Notification.	Arguments of Respondent
There was no delay in Parliament stepping in since it clarified the law immediately after the decision of the Division Bench.	Arguments of Respondent
The Central Government which was exercising delegated power under Section 5A of the Act could not prevent Parliament from undoing the clear error in the exercise of power by the Central Government in granting the exemption or from correcting its vacillating attitude.	Arguments of Respondent
Parliaments right to legislate was unimpeded.	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended that the retrospective levy of excise duty was justified in the circumstances particularly when the liability to pay excise duty was merely suspended by the exemption notifications.	Arguments of Respondent
The further argument is that there was no question of issuing a fresh show cause notice after the enactment of Section 154, as the demand related to and arose out of proceedings which culminated in the others of the Asstt.	Arguments of Respondent
Commissioner impugned before the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The orders had not been appealed from under the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
According to Mr. Ganguly, the previous orders of refund were only provisional and the subsequently orders of the Assistant Commissioner were the final orders rejecting the claims of refund.	Arguments of Respondent
The setting aside of the order by the High Court was immediately followed by the enactment of Section 154.	Arguments of Respondent
It is said that Section 154 stands by itself and provides for the method of recovery and that the section could not be said to be unreasonable.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that the fact that the section may operate harshly in individual cases would not be sufficient reason for striking down the Section as unreasonable.	Arguments of Respondent
In the majority of cases the units had not passed on the benefits by the exemption to their customers and had on the other hand realized the duty from their customers.	Arguments of Respondent
The competence of Parliament and State legislatures to repeal, amend or supersede an exemption notification is unquestionable.	None
The power to do so retrospectively cannot be and is also not doubted.	None
The limitation on this power is that the legislation must not conflict with other provisions of the Constitution.	None
As far as fiscal legislation is concerned, the limitation is implicit in Article 265 of the Constitution which provides that no tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law.	None
As was held by this Court in Chhotabhai Jethabhai Patel and Co. vs. The Union of India and another 1962 Supp (2) SCR 1.	None
If by reason of Art.	None
265 every tax has to be imposed by law it would appear to follow that it could only be imposed by a law which is valid by conformity to the criteria laid down in the relevant Articles of the Constitution.	None
These are that the law should be (1) within the legislative competence of the legislature being covered by the legislative entries in Schedule VII of the Constitution (2) the law should not be prohibited by any particular provision of the Constitution such as for example Arts.	None
276(2), 286 etc.	None
and (3) the law or the relevant portion thereof should not be invalid under Article 13 for repugnancy to those freedoms which are guaranteed by Part III of the Constitution which are relevant to the subject matter of the law.	None
(pg.30)	None
A law cannot be held to be unreasonable merely because it operates retrospectively.	None
Indeed even judicial decisions are in a sense retrospective.	None
When a statute is interpreted by a court, the interpretation is, by fiction of law, deemed to be part of the statute from the date of its enactment.	None
The unreason ability must lie in some other additional factors.	None
The retrospective operation of a fiscal statute would have to be found to be unduly oppressive and confiscatory before it can be held to be so unreasonable as to be violate constitutional norms.	None
Where for instance it appears that the taxing statute is plainly discriminatory or provides no procedural machinery for assessment and levy of the tax, or that it is confiscatory, courts would be justified in striking down the impugned statute as unconstitutional.	None
In such cases, the character of the material provisions of the impugned statute is such that the court would feel justified in taking the view that, in substance, the taxing statute is a cloak adopted by the legislature for achieving its confiscatory purposes.	None
(Rai Ramkrishna vs. State of Bihar AIR 1963 SC 1667 )	None
The question to be answered therefore is whether Section 154, which is in terms retrospective, is ex facie discriminatory, or so unreasonable or confiscatory that it violates Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution.	None
The factors which are generally considered relevant in answering this question are (i) the context in which retrospectivity was contemplated, (ii) the period of such retrospectivity, and (iii) the degree of any unforeseen or unforeseeable financial burden imposed for the past period.	None
Empire Industries Ltd. vs. Union of India (1985) 3 SCC 314 Ujagar Prints vs. Union of India (1989) 3 SCC 488 ,517.	None
The context in which legislation is enacted is to be distinguished from the motives which impelled it to act.	None
The latter are irrelevant (See K.C. Gajapati Narayan Deo Ors.	None
vs. The State of Orissa (1954) 1	None
SCR 1 ,11 RS Joshi vs. Ajit Mills Ltd. (1977) 4 SCC 98 ,108).	None
The justification put forward by the respondent for enacting Section 154 was therefore really unnecessary.	None
Nevertheless, while we cannot for that reason analyse the justification, we may at least consider the plea as setting out the background in which the Section was passed.	None
The particular context of the section impugned in this case was the industrial policy formulated by the Central and the State Government of Assam for the development of that State.	Reasoning
The obvious intention behind the grant of the package of incentives including an exemption from payment of excise duties was to stimulate further industrial growth in the area with enduring benefits not only to the local populace by way of employment opportunities but also to the economic welfare of the State.	Reasoning
The State Governments insistence from the very outset on the need to regulate the industries which were claiming the benefit of the exemption was to ensure that these objects were attained.	Reasoning
According to the Union of India the exemption notification, at least as interpreted by the High Court, did not effectuate that intent.	Reasoning
As it transpired none of the industrial units manufacturing cigarettes were prepared to contribute to this object and their investment in the manufacture of cigarettes was coextensive with the period of the exemption.	Reasoning
The loss of revenue suffered by the Union and the State by the various subsidies and exemptions granted was the quid in return for which the petitioners were not prepared to suffer any quo.	Reasoning
With the withdrawal of the exemption, all of them without exception immediately closed down their cigarette manufacturing units and a large majority have shifted out of the State.	Reasoning
Clearly if the grant of the exemption had operated as it was intended to, it would have been unnecessary to enact Section 154.26.	Reasoning
The High Court may have been right in construing the exemption notification as it stood.	Reasoning
Yet the respondent can contend that that the words should have been used in the exemption so as to provide for sufficient safeguards to ensure that the benefit of exemption was granted only to those industries which would in turn permanently invest in the State.	Reasoning
By the retrospective enactment this defective expression of the object of the policy, was rectified.	Reasoning
The Exemption Notifications were issued under Section 5A of the Central Excise Act, 1944 as a delegate of Parliament.	None
In a Cabinet form of Government, the Executive is expected to reflect the views of the legislature.	None
It would be impossible for Legislatures to deal in detail and cater to the innumerable problems which may arise in implementing a statute.	None
When the power of subordinate legislation is conferred by Parliament in certain matters it can only lay down the policy and guidelines and expect that what is done by the Executive is in keeping with such policy.	None
It does of course retain control over its delegate and can exercise that control by repealing the action of the delegate.	None
Sita Ram Bishamber Dayal vs. State of UP (1972) 2	None
SCR 141 (1972) 4 SCC 485 M.K. Papiah Sons vs. The Excise Commissioner Anr.	None
(1975) 1 SCC 492.	None
Consequently if the Executive has failed to carry out the object of Parliament, such control may be exercised by retrospectively enacting what the Executive ought to have achieved.	None
A somewhat similar situation arose in the case of Epari Chinna Krishna Moorthy vs. State of Orissa and Ors.	None
AIR 1964 SC 1581 .	None
In that case the State Government had issued an exemption notification under Section 6 of the Orissa Sales Tax Act, 1947 for which gold ornaments were ordered to be exempted from sales tax when the manufacturer selling them charges separately for the value of gold and the cost of manufacture.	None
The Notification was issued on 1st July, 1949.	None
The petitioners, who were registered dealers under the Orissa Sales Tax Act filed returns claiming exemption from sales tax.	None
Up to June, 1952 the claims for exemption were allowed by the Department.	None
Subsequently, the assessment were reopened on the ground that the exemption had been wrongly granted.	None
The matter ultimately came up before the High Court.	None
The High Court allowed the petitioners claim for exemption under the notification in question holding that the expression manufacturer meant the first owner of the finished products for whom the ornaments were made either by his prepaid employee or even by independent artisans on receipt of the raw materials and labour charges from him.	None
On 1st August, 1961 the Orissa Sales Tax Validation Act, 1961 was passed.	None
It provided that notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, decree or order of any Court, the word manufacturer meant and was always to be deemed to have meant a person who by his own labour produces the ornaments or a person, who owns or runs manufactories for that purpose.	None
The petitioners did not fall within this definition of manufacturer.	None
They accordingly challenged the 1961 Act on three grounds 1) that since the exemption had been granted by the State Government, it was not open to the legislature to take away the exemption notification 2) that the provisions of 1961 Act contravened Article 14 and 3) that the retrospective operation of the impugned Section was unconstitutional because it imposed an unreasonable restriction on the petitioners fundamental rights under Article 19(1)(g).	None
In negativing these arguments a Constitution Bench of this Court said What the legislature has purported to do by S.2 of the impugned Act is to make the intention of the notification clear.	None
Section 2 in substance declares that the intention of the delegate in issuing the notification granting exemption was to confine the benefit of the said exemption only to persons who actually produce gold ornaments or employ artisans for that purpose.	None
We do not see how any question of legislative incompetence can come in the present discussion.	None
And, if the State Government was given the power either to grant or withdraw the exemption, that cannot possibly affect the legislatures competence to make any provision in that behalf either prospectively or retrospectively.	None
Although the length of time is not by itself decisive National Agricultural Coop Marketing Federation of India Ltd. vs. Union of India (2003) 5 SCC 23.	None
the effect of the retrospectivity of the legislation in this case is less than two years.	None
The tussle between the excise authorities and the petitioners started almost immediately upon the later claiming and obtaining refunds of the excise duty paid by them on the manufacture of cigarettes.	None
The refusal of the exercise authorities to refund, on their interpretation of the notification, led to the filing of the writ petitions.	None
The writ petitions were allowed on 17th May, 2002.	None
In the meanwhile the exemption was already withdrawn in January 2001.	None
The decision was then challenged in appeals by the Union of India which were finally dismissed by the Division Bench on 4th April, 2003.	None
Therefore between 2000 to 2003 the dispute as to the purport of the exemption notification during the period of their operation from July 1999 to January 2001 was pending in Court.	None
The matters were then carried to this Court by the Union of India.	None
While the proceedings were pending and the issue was still at large, Section 154 was enacted.	None
In these circumstances, the Parliament cannot be blamed for having at least awaited the decision of the High Court, nor can be statutory provision be questioned as being unreasonably retrospective.	None
(See in this connection Rai Ram Krishna vs. State of Bihar AIR 1963 SC 1667 , 1675 para 18).	None
The pendency of the proceedings before the Courts meant that there was a possibility of an outcome adverse to the petitioners however strong the petitioners may have considered their case to be.	None
If this Court had reversed the view of the High Court, the petitioners would have had to bear the burden of the excise duty for the period they had manufactured the cigarettes.	None
It could not have been predicted with any certainty that the appeals of the Union of India would fail.	None
By enacting Section 154, Parliament has forestalled a decision by this Court and in effect taken away the basis for the decisions of the High Court.	None
In the circumstances, it could not be said that the financial burden was unforeseen or unforeseeable.	None
In Chairman Railway Board vs. C.R. Rangadhamaiah (supra) the impugned notifications had sought to curtail pensionary rights with retrospective effect.	None
The notifications were held to be unconstitutional on the grounds that when the pension had been granted to the employees, Articles 31(1) and 19(1)(f) were available, both of which were violated by such retrospective operation.	None
It was also held that it was violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution because it had the effect of reducing the amount of pension that had become payable to employees who had already retired from service on the date of issuance of the impugned notifications according to the rules in force at the time of their retirement.	None
However the right of the petitioners to the exemption in the present case can at best be described as a precarious one.	None
It is established law that benefits granted by exemptions may be modified or withdrawn.	None
By the notification the accrued liability to pay excise duty is merely suspended.	None
Such an exemption by its very nature is susceptible to being revoked or modified or subjected to other conditions.	None
Kasinka Trading vs. Union of India (1995) 1 SCC 274 , 287.	None
The Government and a fortiori the Parliament is free to determine the priorities in the matter of utilization of finances and the courts cannot place an embargo on the Government or on the plenary power of Parliament to withdraw the benefit on the basis of any principle of promissory estoppel.	None
It has been said It is necessary that the Legislature should be able to cure inadvertent defects in statutes or their administration by making what has been aptly called small repairs.	None
Moreover, the individual who claims that a vested right has arisen from the defect is seeking a windfall since had the legislatures or administrators action has the effect it was intended to and could have had, no such right would have arisen.	None
Thus, the interest in the retroactive curing of such a defect in the administration of government outweighs the individuals interest in benefiting from the defectThe Court has been extremely reluctant to override the legislative judgment as to the necessary for retrospective taxation, not only because of the paramount governmental interest in obtaining adequate revenues, but also because taxes are not in the nature of a penalty or a contractual obligation but rather a means of apportioning the costs of government among those who benefit from it.	None
The Supreme Court and the Constitutionality of Retroactive Legislation Charles B. Hochman 73rd	None
Harvard Law Review p.692, 706 noted with approval in Empire Industries Limited Ors. vs. Union of India Ors.	None
(1985) 3 SCC 314.	None
As we have said, Mr. Salve relied on Tata Motors Ltd. vs. State of Maharashtra Ors.	Reasoning
(2004) 5 SCC 783 to contend that despite the enormous powers of Parliament to legislate prospectively or retrospectively, unless the material is disclosed why there was an on again and off again exemption, Section 154 must be held to be arbitrary and therefore unconstitutional.	Reasoning
In that case Rule 41E of the Bombay Sales Tax Rules 1959 allowed benefit of setoff in respect of all waste goods or scrap goods or bye products.	Reasoning
This benefit was sought to be taken away by Section 26 of the Maharashtra Tax Laws (Levy Amendment and Repeal) Act, 1989 which amended Rule 41E.	Reasoning
The validity of such retrospective amendment to Rule 41E was challenged.	Reasoning
It was contended that as a result of the amendment the assessee was deprived of the benefit for a period 8 years after which the benefit was reintroduced by another amendment of Rule 41E in 1992.	Reasoning
This Court held that in absence of any material as to why the benefit under Rule 41E had been denied for a particular period, Section 26 of the 1989 Amendment Act deserved to be quashed.	Reasoning
The Court found in favour of the assessee because there was no reason whatsoever forthcoming for the withdrawal of the benefit retrospectively for a limited period.33.	Reasoning
The decision is distinguishable.	Reasoning
In this case, the reasons for the retrospective enactment of Section 154 have been given and as we have also said, those reasons are at least factually plausible.	Reasoning
The next challenge of the petitioners is based on Section 11A of the Act, the relevant extracts of which reads 11A RECOVERY OF DUTIES NOT LEVIED OR NOT PAID OR SHORT  LEVIED OR SHORTPAID OR ERRONEOUSLY REFUNDED (1) When any duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been short levied or short paid or erroneously refunded, a Central Excise Officer may, within six months from the relevant date, serve notice on the person chargeable with the duty which has not been levied or paid or which has been short levied or shortpaid or to whom the refund has erroneously been made, requiring him to show cause why he should not pay the amount specified in the noticeProvided that where any duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been shortlevied or shortpaid or erroneously refunded by reason of fraud, collusion or any willful misstatement or suppression of facts, or contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of the rules made thereunder with intent to evade payment of duty, by such person or his agent, the provisions of this subsection shall have effect, for the words six months, the words five years were substituted.2)	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx xxx3)	None
For the purposes of this section,i)	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx xxxii) relevant date means(a) in the case of excisable goods on which duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been shortlevied or shortpaid(A) where under the rules made under this Act a periodical return, showing particulars of the duty paid on the excisable goods removed during the period to which the said return relates, is to be filed by a manufacturer or a producer or a licensee of a warehouse, as the case may be, the date on which such return is so filed(B) where no periodical return as aforesaid is filed, the last date on which such return is to be filed under the said rules(C) in any other case, the date on which the duty is to be paid under this Act or the rules made thereunder.(b) in a case where duty or excise is provisionally assessed under this Act or the rules made thereunder, the date of adjustment of duty after the final assessment thereof(c) in the case of excisable goods on which duty of excise has been erroneously refunded, the date of such refund.	None
The contention is that Section 154 violates Section 11A in that it does not envisage the service of any notice and it seeks to allow recoveries to be made after the periods of limitation provided.	None
According to the respondent the refunds granted under the notifications dated 8th July, 1999 were not the normal refunds made under the Act but were of special kind for which the complete machinery was provided under the Notifications.	Reasoning
The submission is that since the exemption notifications themselves had been withdrawn by Section 154, the amounts refunded thereunder were recoverable independently of Section 11A under Section 154(4).37.	Reasoning
There are two aspects to this dispute.	Reasoning
The first is the question of limitation and the second the question of notice.	Reasoning
As far as the first aspect is concerned refund of duty under the Act has been provided for by Section	Reasoning
11B.	Reasoning
The Section specifies the manner and circumstances under which refunds of duty may be made.	Reasoning
It is neither of the parties case that the refund made to the petitioners of the excise duty paid by them was under this Section.	Reasoning
In the present case Paragraph 2 of the Notification 32/99 prescribed for the method for giving effect to the exemption.	None
It provided The manufacturer shall submit a statement of the duty paid from the said account current to the Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise or Deputy Commissioner of Central Excise, as the case may be, by the 7th of the next month in which the duty has been paid from the account current.(b)	None
The Assistant Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner of Central Excise, as the case may be, after such verification, as may be deemed necessary, shall refund the amount of duty paid from the account current during the month under consideration to the manufacturer by the 15th of the next month.(c)	None
If there is likely to be any delay in the verification, the Assistant Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner of Central Excise, as the case may be, shall refund the amount on provisional basis by the 15th of the next month to the month under consideration, and thereafter may adjust the amount of refund by such amount as may be necessary in the subsequent refunds admissible to the manufacturer.	None
The claim for refund is subject to verification but the refund must be granted even before such verification on a provisional basis.	None
It was for that reason that the learned single judge had directed the refund by an interim order but allowed the Assistant Commissioner to independently verify the claims.	None
Although Section 11A does not refer to Section 11B, it speaks of duties erroneously refunded.	None
It cannot therefore refer to the refunds made to the petitioners under the notifications as there was no error in the provisional refunds made under the notifications to the appellants.	None
What was sought to be recovered under Section 154 was not an erroneous refund but a benefit provisionally granted.	None
In J.K. Cotton Spinning Weaving Mills Ltd. vs. Union of India (1987) Supp.	Arguments of Petitioner
SCC 350 relied upon by the petitioners, by virtue of the retrospective amendment of Rules 9 and 49 of the Central Excise Rules in 1982, commodities obtained at an intermediate stage of manufacture in a continuous process were deemed to have been removed with the meaning of Rule 9(1) thereby making such intermediate products dutiable under the Act with effect from the commencement of the Act i.e. 1944.	None
In this context the Court held that the amended Rules 9 and 49 would take effect subject to Section 11A.	None
The decision is distinguishable.	Reasoning
The circumstances in which the Court held that the demands for duty could only be limited to six months prior to the amendment was unquestionably different from those present in the case before us.	None
What we have to consider here is whether the benefit granted in 1999 could be withdrawn in 2003.	None
Besides the Court in J.K. Cotton Spinning Weaving Mills Ltds case rejected the contention of the Union of India that Section 51 of 1982 Finance Act by which the amendments were made to Rules 9 and 49 overrode the provisions of Section 11A saying if the intention of the legislature was to nullify the effect of Section 11A,, the legislature would have specifically provided for the same.	None
Similarly our decision in National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd. vs. Union of India (2003) 5 SCC 23 which dealt with an amendment with an amendment to Section 80P(2)(a)(iii) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 noted that the amendment does not seek to touch on the periods of limitation provided in the Act, and in the absence of such express provision or clear implication, the legislature clearly could not be taken to intend that the amending provisions authorizes the Income Tax Officer to commence proceedings which before the new Act came into force, had, by the expiry of the period provided become barred.	None
In the present case Section 154(4) specifically and expressly allows amounts to be recovered within a period of thirty days from the day of Finance Bill, 2003 received the assent of the President.	None
It cannot but be held therefore that the period of six months provided under Section 11A would not apply.	None
On the question of notice prior to the recovery irrespective of Section 11A, it is contended by the petitioners relying on the decision of this Court in East India Commercial Co. Ltd. vs. The Collector of Customs (1963) 3	None
SCR 338 , 361 that whether a statute provides for notice or not, it was incumbent upon the respondents to issue notice to the petitioners disclosing the circumstance under which proceedings are sought to be initiated against them and that any proceedings taken without such notice would be against the principles of natural justice.	None
Assuming that the principle were applicable to the case before us, in fact notices of personal hearing were served on the petitioners by the Assistant Collector for a personal hearing before the Assistant Collector passed the orders by which the petitioners were held liable to repay the refunds made and to pay the excise on the goods cleared for the subsequent periods.	None
The High Courts decision setting aside the orders as being contrary to the Exemption Notification was sought to be overcome by Section 154(1).	None
In other words, by virtue of Section 154(1), notwithstanding the decision of the High Court, the orders of the Assistant Collector, which were purported to have been taken under the notifications, were validated as if the notifications as amended had been in force when the orders were passed.	None
A grievance has been raised by the petitioners that cigarette manufacturers have been unfairly discriminated against.	Reasoning
We are unable to accept the submission for several reasons.44.	Reasoning
First, there is a presumption in favour of constitutionality of a statute, a presumption which only the clearest and weightiest evidence can displace.45.	Reasoning
Second, we can take judicial notice of the fact that cigarettes have been treated as a class apart for the purposes of levy of excise duty with the manufacture of cigarettes probably yielding the highest revenue to the exchequer.	Reasoning
As was said in R.K. Garg vs. Union of India (1981) 4 SCC 675 by the following words The presumption of constitutionality is indeed so strong that in order to sustain it, the Court may take into consideration matters of common knowledge, matters of common report, the history of the times and may assume every state of facts which can be conceived existing at the time of legislation.	None
Third another rule of equal importance is that laws relating to economic activities should be viewed with greater latitude than laws touching civil rights such as freedom of speech, religion etc.	None
(ibid).	None
The final question is that of the relief to be granted.	Reasoning
The petitioners can be broadly classified into three groups Job workers for large cigarette companies which have closed down the units with the withdrawal of the exemption and left the State of Assam.	None
Job workers for large cigarette companies which have closed down their cigarette manufacturing units but started new business in other products.	None
Industrial units which have set up their own units and have reinvested their earnings in their businesses in the State after closing down the manufacture of cigarettes.	None
Some units have admittedly not passed on the excise duty benefits to their customers.	None
On the other hand the large cigarette companies have recovered the excise duty from the customers.	None
Other units claim to have passed on the benefit of the entire exemption to their customers.	None
All the petitioners however claim that they would be financially crippled if they were called upon to repay the refund of the excise duties or pay the excise duty on the cigarettes manufactured by them.	None
According to them the quantum of excise duties would far exceed their profits from the manufacture of cigarettes.	None
The respondents on the other hand have urged that the petitioners were merely fronts for the large cigarette companies which had misused the notification to avoid the excise duty otherwise payable by them.	None
This was clear from the agreements entered into between them and the various industrial units through which they claimed the benefits.	None
The agreements showed inter alia that the entire set up was financed by the large companies.	None
The arrangement was back to back so that with the withdrawal of the exemption, the units would be closed down.	None
The promptness with which a unit went into commercial production after it was set up in a few days showed that there was no real investment by the petitioners.	None
Many of the units had not even got permanent registration before they went into production and claimed refund of large amounts of excise duty.	None
Admittedly the large cigarette companies had not only not passed on the benefit of exemption but had levied and retained the excise duty on the cigarettes manufactured by the petitioners for the customers of the large companies.	None
The petitioners who were admittedly in group A have refuted this and contend that their relationship with the large cigarette companies was on a principal to principal basis and that under their agreements they alone would be liable to pay the excise duty now demanded by the respondents under Section 154.	None
We are not in a position to determine the disputes raised.	Reasoning
However we cannot lose sight of the fact that although excise duty like other indirect taxes may be passed on to the customer of the goods under the law as it now stands, it is the manufacturer of the excisable goods to whom the excise authorities will look for payment.	Reasoning
How the manufacturer will adjust its liability with its customers does not concern the respondents nor can they be asked to recover their dues from persons who may have ultimately taken on the responsibility to pay the excise duty as a result of an agreement with the manufacturer.	Reasoning
(See in this connection State of Rajasthan vs. J.K. Udaipur Udyog Ltd. (2004) 7 SCC 673 , 692).55.	None
Furthermore having upheld the constitutional validity of Section 154 it would be a pyrrhic victory for the Union of India if they could not in fact recover the tax.	Reasoning
It is not a case where the legislation has merely withdrawn the exemptions.	Reasoning
The consequences of the withdrawal have been statutorily provided for including the recovery of the excise duties refunded or not paid.	Reasoning
The effective period of such imposition is about eight months.	Reasoning
The State has been deprived of revenue without any corresponding benefit, it may be that the retrospective operation may operate harshly in some cases, but that would not by itself invalidate the demand.	Reasoning
See Epari Chinna Krishna Moorthy vs. State of Orissa (supra) it needs to be emphasized that in effect the retrospective operation extended over a very short period and principles of equity must give way to express statutory provision.	Reasoning
As was said in Story on Equity (3rd Eng.Ed.1920)p.34 Where a rule, either of the common or the statute law, is direct, and governs the case with all its circumstances, or the particular point, a court of equity is as much bound by it as a court of law, and can as little justify a departure from it (See also the Land Acquisition Officer v. H. Narayanaiah AIR 1976 SC 2403 , 2412 para 23.).	None
No doubt in British Physical Lab India Ltd vs. State of Karnataka Ors.	Reasoning
(1999) 1 SCC 170 relied upon by the petitioners the Sales Tax Authorities proposed to recover the difference in duty from manufacturers within the State having regard to the fact that the notifications giving them the benefit of a lower rate of tax had been struck down.	Reasoning
This court held that they should not do so.	Reasoning
The rationale behind the decision has been explicitly stated in Texmaco Ltd vs. State of Andhra Pradesh (2000) 1 SCC 763.	Reasoning
In directing that the State shall not collect the amount of sales tax that had become payable by reason of the quashing of the notifications, this Court noted that the notifications had been intended to protect the local cement industries.	Reasoning
The quashing of the notifications should have the effect of putting the local cement industry and the same industry outside the State on par.	Reasoning
It could not place the former in a disadvantageous position qua the later.	Reasoning
Apart from this, the respondentState had also not contested the factual position.	Reasoning
The circumstances in which this Court directed the State not to collect amount of sales tax which had become payable only by reason of the Order quashing the notifications issued under the State Sales Tax Act do not exist here.	Reasoning
What we are considering in this case is a positive statutory mandate directing the consequences of the withdrawal of the exemption notifications.	Reasoning
For the reasons stated we dismiss the transferred writ petitions without any order as to costs.	None
ORDER In view of our judgment pronounced today in T.C. (C) No. 27 of 2004 etc., these appeals are dismissed as infructuous.	Decision
