 SARKARIA, J.1.	None
The principal question that has been mooted before us in this petition for special leave to appeal under Article 136 of the Constitution, against an appellate judgment dated 21st July, 1976 of the High Court at Calcutta, is, whether a bamboo garden or banana plantation is an Orchard within the meaning of Section 6(1) (f), of the West Bengal Estate Acquisition Act, 1954 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Issue
The material portion of Section 6 of the Act reads as under6(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 4 and 5, an intermediary shall except in the cases mentioned in the proviso to subsection (2) but subject to other provisions of that subsection, be entitled to retain with effect from the date of vesting(f) subject to the provisions of subsection (3) Land comprised in tea garden or orchard or land used for the purpose of live stock breeding, poultry farming or dairy.	None
The petitioner claims himself to be an intermediary.	Facts
The High Court has held (reversing the judgments of the courts below) that a cultivated bamboo garden would fall within the definition of Agricultural land in Section 2(b) of the Act and cannot in any view be called an orchard with in the purview of Section 6(1) (f) of the Act.	Facts
It further held that a banana plantation is not an orchard because banana plants are not fruit trees.	Facts
Mr. Purshotham Chatterjee, appearing for the petitioner contends that orchard has not been defined in the Act, and we must, therefore, interpret the expression orchard, in its popular sense and not in the strict botanical sense, as the High Court has done.	None
An orchard, it is argued in the broad Dictionary sense, means a garden of fruit plants, or fruit trees, and a banana plant, according to the Concise Oxford Dictionary, is a fruittree.2.	None
As against this, Mr. Majumdar, appearing for the Respondent State, submits that a banana plant is not a tree but a herbacious plant.	Arguments of Respondent
We are unable to accept the contention canvassed on behalf of the petitioner.3.	None
Section 2(p) of the Act provides (p) Expressions used in this Act and not otherwise defined have in relation to the areas to which the Bengal Tenancy Act, 1885, applies, the same meaning as in that Act and in relation to other areas meaning as similar there to as the existing law relating to land tenures applying to such areas, permits.4.	None
Now, Section 14K(e) of the West Bengal Land Reforms Act (as amended) defines an Orchard to meanA compact area of land having fruit bearing trees grown thereon in such number that they preclude or when fully grown would preclude, a substantial part of such land from being used for any agricultural purpose.5.	None
In view of clause (p) of Section 2 of the Act, it will not be wrong to look to this definition in the Land Reforms Act, for guidance.	None
This definition, it will be seen, substantially conforms to the dictionary meaning of the term orchard.	Reasoning
According to the Oxford Dictionary, the modern connotation of orchard is an enclosure with fruit trees, or an enclosure for the cultivation of fruit trees.	Reasoning
Websters New World Dictionary, also, gives its meaning as an area of land, generally enclosed, devoted to the cultivation of fruit trees, nut trees, .	Reasoning
Thus, the existence of cultivated fruit trees on a compact area, is central to the connotation of orchard.	Reasoning
The question before us, therefore, resolves into the issue, whether a banana plant is a tree ?	Reasoning
A tree, according to the Shorter Oxford Dictionary, is a perennial plant having a selfsupporting woody main stem or trunk (which usually develops wood branches at some distance from the ground), and growing to a considerable height.	Reasoning
Thus, for a plant to come within the connotation of tree, it must have two essential characteristics (a) It must be perennial and not seasonal and (b) Its main stem must be woody and not herbacious or pulpy.6.	None
A banana plant lacks both these characteristics.	None
It is not a perennial plant, but is more in the nature of a seasonal crop lasting for one or one and a quarter years.	Reasoning
Once the plant yields fruit, it becomes useless and does not yield any further fruit.	Reasoning
Further, its stem is not woody but fleshy or herbacious.7.	None
Banana plant, according to Websters Dictionary, is a treelike perennial herb of the genus Musa plant with soft herbacious stalk.	None
Oxford Dictionary, no doubt, loosely describes it as a fruittree belonging to the genus Musa sapientum, but it also concedes that it has no woody stem or trunk but only a soft herbacious stalk.	Reasoning
The Websters Dictionary appears to be more correct w hen it uses the word treelike for a banana plant.8.	None
Thus considered, a banana plant cannot be regarded as a fruit tree.	None
Therefore, a banana plantation is not an orchard within the contemplation of Section 6(1) (f) of the Act.9.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, of opinion that the High Court was right in deciding that point against the petitioner.	Decision
There is no ground to interfere with its decision.	Decision
The petition fails and is dismissed.10.	None
Petition dismissed.	None
