 Ramaswani, J.1.	None
This appeal is brought, by special leave, from the judgment of the.	Issue
Mysore High Courts dated November 17, 1964 in Tax Referred Case No. 1 of 1964.2.	None
The property in question is house No. 34	Facts
Mahatma Gandhi Road, Bangalore.	Facts
It had been purchased by the appellants father Dr. C. F. Da Costa (hereinafter called the deceased) in the joint names of himself and his wife on February 14, 1940.	Facts
They made a gift of the house to their two sons on October 29, 1954.	Facts
The document recites that the donees had accepted the gift and they had been put in possession.	Facts
But the parents continued to be in possession of the house though the municipal tax was paid thereafter in the names of the sons.	Facts
The deceased died on September 30, 1959 more than 4 years after the gift.	Facts
The appellant, the accountable person, then filed a return showing the value of the estate left by his father at Rs. 93,750 excluding the value of the house No. 34, Mahatma Gandhi Road, Bangalore.	Facts
The Assistant Controller of Estate Duty, however, included the sum of Rs. 1,50,000 as the value thereof and determined the aggregate value of the estate at Rs. 2,57,249 and assessed the estate duty payable at Rs. 15,751.54 P. by his order, dated November 30, 1959.	Facts
The appellant thereupon preferred an appeal to the Central Board of Revenue (hereinafter referred to as the Board) which dismissed the appeal and affirmed the view taken by the Assistant Controller of Estate Duty.	Facts
At the instance of the appellant the Board referred the following question of law for the determination of the High CourtWhether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the property at No. .34, Mahatma Gandhi Road, Bangalore was correctly included in the estate of the deceased as property passing or deemed to pass on his death under S. 10 of the Act ?	Facts
The High Court answered the question in the affirmative, holding that the appellant was liable to pay estate duty with regard to the house.3.	Issue
Under S. 5 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 (Act No. 34 of 1953) (hereinafter called the Act), estate duty is payable on the principal value of the estate of every person dying after the commencement of the Act.	None
Section 2 (16) of the Act defines the expression property passing on death and is to the following effect2.	None
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, (16) property passing on the death includes property passing either immediately on the death or after any interval, either certainly or contingently, and either originally or by way of substitutive limitation, and on the death includes at a period ascertainable only by reference to the deathSection 10 of the Act included in the expression passing on death even gifts made by a deceased in certain circumstances.	None
The section reads as followsGifts whenever made where donor not entirely excluded.  	None
Property taken under any gift, whenever made, shall be deemed to pass on the donors death to the extent that bona fide possession and enjoyment of it was not immediately assumed by the donee and thenceforward retained to the entire exclusion of the donor or of any benefit to him by contract or otherwise Provided that the property shall not be deemed to pass by reason only that it was, not, as from the date of the gift, exclusively retained as aforesaid, if, by means of the surrender of the reserved benefit or otherwise, it is subsequently enjoyed to the entire exclusion of the donor or of any benefit to him for at least two years before the death.4.	None
In the present case, the Board has found that though the deceased had gifted the house in question to his children four years before the date of his death, he still continued to stay in the house till his death as the head of the family and also was looking after the affairs of the house.	None
It was contended on behalf of the appellant that upon these facts the High Court erred in holding that S. 10 of the Act was attracted to the case and there was no exclusion of the donor from the bona fide possession and enjoyment of the gifted property.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was said that the appellants father did not have any right of possession or enjoyment of the gifted property either in law or in equity and as the deceased had no enforceable right the High Court should have held that estate duty was not leviable under S. 10 of the Act and there was entire exclusion of the donor within the meaning of that section.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his submission Counsel for the appellant relied upon the decision of Hamilton, J. in AttorneyGeneral v. Seccombe, 19112 KB 688.5.	None
The question involved in this appeal depends upon the proper interpretation of S. 10 of the Act.	Issue
The intention of the legislature in enacting S. 10 of the Act was to exclude from liability to estate duty certain categories of gifts.	None
A gift of immovable property under S. 10 will, however, be dutiable unless the donee assumes immediately exclusive and bona fide possession and enjoyment of the subjectmatter of the gift, and there is no beneficial interest reserved to the donor by contract or otherwise.	Reasoning
The section must be grammatically construed as follows Property taken under any gift, whenever made, of which property bona fide possession and enjoyment shall not have been assumed by the donee immediately upon the gift, and of which property bona fide possession and enjoyment shall not have been thenceforward retained by the donee to the entire exclusion of the donor from such possession and enjoyment, or of any benefit to him by contract or otherwise.	None
The crux of the section lies in two parts (1) the donee must bona fide have assumed possession and enjoyment of the property, which is the subjectmatter of the gift to the exclusion of the donor, immediately upon the gift, and (2) the donee must have retained such possession and enjoyment of the property to the entire exclusion of the donor or of any benefit to him by contract or otherwise.	None
As a matter of construction we are of opinion that both these conditions are cumulative.	Reasoning
Unless each of these conditions is satisfied, the property would be liable to estate duty under S. 10 of the Act.	Reasoning
This view is borne out by the decision of the Court of Appeal in AttorneyGeneral v. Earl Grey, 18982 QB 534, 541, with regard to an analogous provision under S. 38 (2) of the Customs and Inland Revenue Act, 1881, as amended by S. 11 of the Customs and Inland Revenue Act, 1889.6.	None
The second part of the section has two limbs the deceased must be entirely excluded (i) from the property, and (ii) from any benefit by contract or otherwise.	None
It was argued for the appellant that the expression by contract or otherwise should be construed ejusdem generis and reference was made to the decision of Hamilton, J. in 19112 KB 688.	None
On this aspect of the case we think that the argument of the appellant is justified.	None
In the context of the section the word otherwise should.	None
in our opinion, be construed ejusdem generis and it must be interpreted to mean some kind of legal obligation or some transaction enforceable at law or in equity which, though not in the form of a contract, may confer a benefit on the donor.	Reasoning
But it was contended by Mr. Sen for the respondent that the case of the Revenue does not rest upon the second limb of the section but upon the first limb which requires that the donor must have been entirely excluded from possession and enjoyment of the property.	Arguments of Respondent
It was pointed out that there was no such exclusion in the present case and the finding of the Board is that the deceased continued to stay in the house till his death as the head of the family and was looking after the affairs of the household.	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended therefore that the first limb of the section is not satisfied in this case and the property must be held to pass on the death of the deceased under that section.	Arguments of Respondent
In our opinion, the contention of the respondent must be accepted as correct.	None
As a matter of construction we hold that the words by contract or otherwise in the second limb of the section will not control the words to the entire exclusion of the donor in the first limb.	Reasoning
In other words, in order to attract the section it is not necessary that the possession of the donor of the gift must referable to some contractual or other arrangement enforceable in law or in equity.	Reasoning
Even if the donor is content to rely upon the mere filial affection of his sons with a view to enable him to continue to reside in the house, it cannot be said that he was entirely excluded from possession and enjoyment within the meaning of the first limb of the section and, therefore, the property will be deemed to have passed on the death of the donor and will be subject to levy of estate duty.7.	Reasoning
On behalf of the appellant strong reliance was placed upon the decision of the Court of Appeal in 19112 KB 688, which has already been referred to.	None
In that case, the deceased made an absolute gift of a house and furniture to a relative, without any stipulation, but continued to live there as the donees guest until his death more than five years later.	None
Upon the death of the donor the Crown claimed estate duty upon the value of the property upon the ground that bona fide possession and enjoyment of the property were not assumed by the donor and thenceforward retained to the entire exclusion of the donor, or of any benefit to him by contract or otherwise.	None
It was observed by Hamilton, J. that there was no legally enforceable arrangement permitting the deceased to reside in the house and the deceased was simply the guest of the donee and was fully content to rely upon the affection which the donee bore towards him.	None
It was, therefore, held in that case that estate duty was not payable.	None
It was stated by Hamilton, J. in the course of his judgment that the exclusion of the deceased from the property itself (the first limb of the condition) would, like his exclusion from any benefit by contract or otherwise (the second limb), be achieved unless he had some enforceable right.	None
The view taken by Hamilton, J. on this particular point is, however, not consistent with the opinion of the Judicial Committee in Chick v. Commr. of Stamp Duties of New South Wales, 1958 AC 435, which is a decision on a similarly worded clause of a New South Wales Statute.	None
In that case, the deceased gave his son a farming property, Mia Mia, in 1934 in 1935 the deceased, the son and another son entered into a partnership agreement as graziers and stock dealers, on the terms, inter alia, that the deceased should be the manager and that his decision should be final in all matters relating to the conduct of the business that the capital should consist of the livestock and plant owned by the partners, that the business should be conducted on their respective holdings (including Mia Mia), and that the land held by each partner should be his sole property and he should have the sole and free right to deal with it as he might think fit.	None
The partnership continued till the death of the deceased in 1952, and the property Mia Mia was held dutiable as a gift not to his entire exclusion.	None
There is a decision to a similar effect in Commissioner of Stamp Duties of New South Wales v. Owens.	None
88 CLR 67 which was a case under the New South Wales statute.	None
It appears that there was a verbal partnership between the deceased and his son under which they farmed two properties, owned by the deceased, the profits being shared as to two thirds to the deceased and onethird to the son.	None
Some years later the deceased transferred one of the properties to the son expressly free of all conditions, so that the son could have farmed it independently in fact they farmed it and shared the profits equally for some eleven years upto the date of death.	None
The Australian Court found that there was a gift of an estate in fee simple, carrying the fullest right known to the law of exclusive possession and enjoyment but that the farming and profitsharing were inconsistent with the deceaseds exclusion, and that duty was, therefore, chargeable.	None
In an earlier case  OConnor v. Commissioner of Stamp Duties (South Australia), 47 CLR 601  which was a decision under a South Australian enactment couched in a similar language, the deceased was given a power of attorney by the donee and continued to farm the donated lands and was not in fact required to account for the profits, though he could evidently have been required to do so.	None
But it was again held that duty was chargeable on the donated lands.	None
It appears from all these cases that the first limb of the section may be infringed if the donor occupies or enjoys the property or its income, even though he has no right to do so which he could legally enforce against the donee.	None
Where the question is whether the donor has been entirely excluded from the subjectmatter of the gift, that is the single fact to be determined.	None
If he has not been so excluded, the eye need look no further to see whether his nonexclusion has been advantageous or otherwise to the donee.  	None
(Viscount Simonds in 1958 AC 435).8.	None
It was then pointed out on behalf of the appellant that the Finance Act of 1965 has amended S. 10 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 by introducing the following proviso Provided further that a house or part thereof taken under any gift made to the spouse, son, daughter, brother or sister, shall not be deemed to pass on the donors death by reason only of the residence therein of the donor except where a right of residence therein is, reserved or secured directly or indirectly to the donor under the relevant disposition or under any collateral disposition.	None
It was argued that this proviso must be taken as legislative interpretation of the section as it stood previous to the amendment and since no right of residence was reserved or secured to the donor under the deed of gift or under any collateral disposition, the imposition of estate duty was not justified.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to accept this argument as correct.	None
The amendment brought about by the Finance Act, 1965 was effective only from April 1, 1965 and was not retrospective.	None
We think that the insertion of the second proviso to the section must be taken to have been made deliberately by Parliament to be effective from the date of the amendment.	Reasoning
We, therefore, see no reason for holding that the earlier provision in S. 10 should be interpreted with reference to the language of the amendment brought about by the Finance Act of 1965.	None
We accordingly reject the argument of Mr. Srinivasan on this point.9.	None
It was lastly contended for the appellant that in any event the property in question belonged jointly to the mother and father of the appellant and the whole property could not be deemed to have passed upon the death of the father under S. 5 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The question was examined by the Board which found that the property was purchased entirely out of the funds of the deceased, that for the purpose of incometax the deceased had declared the entire property as his own, and that the income therefrom was exclusively assessed in his hands.	None
On these facts the Board held that though the property stood in the joint names of the deceased and his wife, she was merely a namelender and the entire property belonged to the deceased and was rightly included in his estate for the purpose of estate duty.	Reasoning
In view of this finding of fact it is not possible to accept the argument of the appellant that only half the share of the property should be taken for the purpose of estate duty assessment.10.	Reasoning
For the reasons expressed, we hold that the decision of the High Court is correct and this appeal must be dismissed with costs.11.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
