 Ramaswami, J.1.	None
This appeal is brought, by certificate, from the judgment of the High Court of Mysore, dated December 13, 1961 in Incometax Reference Case No. 113 of 1959.	Facts
The respondent (hereinafter referred to as the Bank) is a public limited company carrying on business of banking at its head office in Mangalore and its branches in various places.	Facts
It opened one branch in Karachi on November 15, 1946.	Facts
After the partition of India in 1947 the currencies of the two dominions of India and Pakistan continued to be at par until there was a devaluation of the Indian Rupee on September 18, 1949.	Facts
As Pakistan did not devalue her rupee, the old parity of the Pakistan and Indian Rupee ceased to exist.	Facts
The exchange ratio between the two countries was not determined until February 27, 1951 On this date it was agreed that a hundred Pakistani Rupees were equivalent to a hundred and fortyfour Indian rupees.	Facts
On the date of devaluation of the Indian Rupee the Karachi Branch of the Bank had with it a sum of Rs. 3,97,221 belonging, to its head office.	Facts
Owing to the difficulties of the currency situation it was impossible to remit the amount to the head office for quite a long tune.	Facts
On July 1, 1953, the State Bank of Pakistan permitted its remittance to India.	Facts
In terms of Indian currency the said amount became equivalent to Rs. 5,71,038.	Facts
Thus there was an appreciation of the value of the amount remitted from the Karachi branch and the Bank made a profit of Rs. 11,73,817.	Facts
After making certain deductions, the head office of the Bank transferred a sum of Rs. 1,70,746 to its Contingencies Reserve Account.	Facts
In its return for the assessment year 195455, the Bank claimed that this sum was a capital gain and was not taxable.	Facts
By his order, dated February 9, 1955 the Incometax Officer rejected the claim holding that the said amount of Rs. 1,70,746 was a revenue receipt.	Facts
The order of the Incometax Officer was affirmed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner in appeal.	Facts
The Bank took the matter in further appeal to the Incometax Appellate Tribunal which rejected the appeal by its order dated November 23, 1956.	Facts
At the instance of the Bank the Incometax Appellate Tribunal referred the following question of law for the determination of the High Court Whether the aforesaid exchange difference of Rs. 1,70,746 is assessable under any of the provisions of the Indian Incometax Act ?	Facts
By its order, dated December 11, 1961 the High Court reversed the finding of the Appellate Tribunal and held that the exchange difference of Rs.	None
1,70.746 was not assessable to incometax under any provision of the Indian Incometax Act.2.	Facts
The question involved in this appeal is whether the profit of the Bank on account of fluctuation of exchange arose in the course of trading operation of the Bank or whether it was incidental to any such trading operation.	None
If by virtue of exchange operations profits are made during the course of business and in connection with business transactions, the excess receipts on account of conversion of one currency into another would be revenue receipts.	Reasoning
But if the profit by exchange operations comes in, not by way of business of the Bank, the profit would be capital profit.	Reasoning
In the present case, the High Court has found, after an analysis of the relevant facts, that the appreciation of the money did not arise in the course of any trading operation.	Reasoning
In the year 1949 when there was a devaluation of the Indian rupee, Karachi branch of the Bank was not carrying on any business in foreign currencies.	Reasoning
It has been found by the Appellate Tribunal that until April 3, 1951 when the Back was permitted to carry on business in Pakistan currency it carried on no foreign exchange business.	Reasoning
Even after such permission was granted and even after the Bank obtained on April 25, 1953 a general licence to carry on business in all foreign currencies the money of the head office was not used for any business in foreign currencies.	Reasoning
The appellate Tribunal has found that the money was lying idle in the Karachi branch and it was not utilised in any banking operation and the Karachi branch was merely keeping that money with it for the purpose of remittance to India and awaiting permission of the State Bank of Pakistan.	Reasoning
The State Bank of Pakistan granted the permission on July 1, 1953 and the remittance actually took place two days later, i.e., on July 3, 1953.	Reasoning
It has been found by the appellate Tribunal that the sum of money was at no material time employed, expanded or used for any banking operation or for any foreign exchange business.	None
In the supplementary statement of the case the appellate Tribunal stated thatduring the period April 3, 1951 to April 25, 1953 there were dealings between India and Pakistan offices of the Bank, such as opening of letters of credit, issuing of drafts, etc., and that all these operations were effected in a new account which was opened and the old balance of Rs. 3,97,221 could not be utilised as per instructions of the State Bank of Pakistan.	None
According to the agreed statement of the case the amount of Rs. 3,97,221 was blocked and sterilised for the period from the devalution of the Indian rupee upto the time of its remittance to India.	None
In the context of these facts the High Court took the view that the appreciation of the value of the money did not arise in the course of the trading operation of the Bank and was not, therefore taxable as revenge receipt.	None
On behalf of the appellant Mr. Hazarnavis submitted that the appellate Tribunal was wrong in holding that there was blocking or sterilisation of the amount.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Counsel said that the balance sheets of the Revonue account of the Karachi branch would show that the amount of Rs. 3,97,221 was not lying idle in the Karachi branch but was utilised by it for internal banking operations within Pakistan.	Arguments of Petitioner
We did not, however, permit Mr. Hazarnavis to produce additional evidence in this Court for controverting the findings of fact reached by the appellate Tribunal.	None
It is a matter of significance that the original statement of the case, dated May 15, 1957 and supplementary statement of the case, dated August 14, 1959 were both agreed statements.	Reasoning
Before the High Court also the findings of the appellate Tribunal were not challenged on behalf of the Commissioner of Incometax.	Reasoning
On the other hand, it appears that it was conceded by the appellant before the High Court that there was no evidence that the blocked balance was, in fact, employed by the Karachi branch for the internal banking operations in Pakistan or for its business in Pakistan and other foreign currencies.	Reasoning
It is therefore not permissible for the appellant at this stage to go behind the two statements of the case and to challenge the findings of fact contained therein.	None
The argument was also stressed by Mr. Hazarnavis that the money was a stockintrade of the bank and an increment of Rs. 1,70,746 due to the fluctuation in the exchange rate must therefore be treated as incidental to the business of the Bank.	None
We shall assume in favour of the appellant that the money was stockintrade of the Bank.	None
But it does not necessarily follow that the increment due to the fluctuation in the exchange rate was due to trading operations in the carrying on of the banking business.	Reasoning
On the contrary, it has been found by the appellate Tribunal that the amount of 14.	Reasoning
3,97,221 was a blocked and sterilised balance and the Bank we unable to deal with that amount or use it for any banking purpose between September 1941 and July 1953 when it was finally remitted to India.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the money changed its character of stock intrade when it was blocked and sterilised and the increment in value owing to the exchange fluctuation must be treated as a capital receipt.	Reasoning
It has also been found by the appellate Tribunal that the said amount of Rs. 3,97,221 was not utilised for internal banking operations within Pakistan and it is hence not possible to draw an inference that the Bank realised any profit in the carrying out of its business.	Reasoning
We accordingly hold that Mr. Hazarnavis is unable to make good his argument on this aspect of the case and the High Court was right in reaching the conclusion that the exchange difference of Rs. 1,70,746 was not assessable to incometax.3.	Reasoning
In the course of his argument Mr. Hazarnavis relied upon the decision of the Court of Appeal in Imperial Tobacco Co. v. Kelly, (1944) 25 Tax Cas 292.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that case, a tobacco manufacturing company in England with a view to buying tobacco leaf in the U.S.A. during the leaf season, used to provide itself with dollar currency in advance by purchasing the same beforehand.	None
On the outbreak of war, owing to Governmental restrictions the company had to suspend its buying operations in U.S.A. Later, the British Treasury requisitioned the accumulated dollars and paid the company sterling in exchange.	None
The dollars in the meantime having appreciated in value, the company got more sterling than what it originally laid down.	None
It was held by the Court of Appeal that the excess receipts were profits assessable to incometax and the acquisition of the dollars was the first step in the commercial transaction of the company.	None
The dollar was a commodity of the company and it became a surplus stock to the companys requirements on the restriction on purchase and its original revenue character would not be altered by the circumstance of the Governmental controls requisitioning the dollars.	None
Mr. Hazarnavis also referred to the decision in Landes Brothers v. Simpson, (1935) 19	None
Tax Cas 62, where a similar view was taken.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the contrary, Counsel for the respondent relied upon the decision in McKinlay (H. M. Inspector of Taxes) v. H. T. Jenkins and Son, Ltd., (1926) 10 Tax Cas 372, in which it was held that the profit by exchange operations would be capital profit if the profit did not come in by way of business but by means of an investment in foreign currencies.	None
In that case, a British company carrying on business in marblas, bought Italian Liras in advance with which to pay in Italy for marbles to be purchased there.	None
But before the time came for purchase, finding that the Lira had appreciated, it sold away the Liras at a profit, and bought a second instalment of Liras to fulfil its contract in time.	None
It was held by Rowlatt, J. that the first instalment of Liras should be regarded as capital lying idle and that the conversion thereof was a speculative transaction in capital.	None
Reference was also made to the decision in Davis v. The Shell Co. of China.	None
Ltd., (1952)	None
32 Tax Cas 133.	None
But the decision in none of these cases is exactly in point, for the material facts in the present case are different.	None
The question of law arising in the present case must be decided on the particular facts and circumstances found by the appellate Tribunal.4.	None
For the reasons already expressed we hold that the High Court has correctly answered the question referred to it and this appeal must be dismissed with costs.5.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
