 Raghubar Dayal, J.1.	None
These are three petitions under Art.	None
32 by the petitioners, which is a partnership firm, praying for a declaration that S. 2 of the Madras General Sales Tax (Special Provisions) Act 1963 (Act No. 11 of 1963) hereinafter called the Act, is ultra vires the Constitution and of no effect and for a writ of mandamus directing the State of Madras to refrain from enforcing any of the provisions of that section.	Decision
Each of the petitions relates to a particular assessment year.2.	None
The petitioners are dealers in skin carrying on business at Shenbakkam, Vellore, North Arcot District, in the State of Madras.	Facts
They purchase raw skins from places both within and outside the State of Madras, tan the same and sell them through their agents in Madras.	Facts
They were assessed to a certain amount of salestax, in accordance with the provision of the Madras General Sales Tax Act 1939 (Madras Act IX 1939) and R. 16(2) (ii) of the rules framed thereunder viz.	Facts
the Madras General Sales Tax (Turnover and Assessment) Rules, on the turnover of hides and skins purchased in the untanned condition outside the State, but tanned within the State, with respect to each of the assessment years 195556, 195657 and 195758.	Facts
The tax was assessed at 3 pies per rupee on the price of tanned hides and skins for the years 195556 and 195657 and at the rate of 2 per cent on the turnover for the year 195758.3.	Facts
The petitioners challenged earlier the validity of R. 16 on the ground that it contravened Art. 304 of the Constitution.	Facts
Their contentions were negatived by the Sales Tax Authorities.	Facts
The petitioners then filed writ petition No. 148 of 1959 in this Court against the assessment of tax for the year 195758.	Facts
This Court allowed it as it had held on November 22, 1962 in Firm Mehatab Majid and Co. v. State of Madras, that R. 16 (2) of the rules was invalid as it discriminated against the imported hides and skins which had been purchased or tanned outside the State.	Facts
Subsequently, the validity of R. 16(1) of the rules was challenged in this Court in writ petitions Nos. 43 and 44 of 1963 by M. J. Jamale Mohideen and Co.	Facts
Those writs were filed on March 5, 1963 and it was contended that subrule (1) standing by itself was ultra vires the Constitution as it had the effect of selecting for discriminatory taxation only raw hides and skins and leaving untaxed sales of tanned hides and skins in Madras.4.	Facts
On June 10, 1963, the Governor of Madras promulgated Madras Ordinance No. 3 of 1963.	Facts
The explanatory statement attached to the Ordinance stated The decision of the Supreme Court (in W. P. 147 of 1959 Firm A. T. B .Mehtab Majid and Co. v. The State of Madras, (AIR 1963 SC 928 )) will result in claims for refund of tax being preferred by dealers in hides and skins already assessed under the impugned rule thereby resulting in huge loss of revenue and will also result in administrative complications.	Facts
It is therefore considered necessary to avoid these difficulties by removing the discrimination in the matter of levy of tax on hides and skins pointed out by the Supreme Court and to provide for the assessment or reassessment and collection of the tax from the dealers in hides and skins without any discrimination by leaving the tax in all cases on the basis of the purchase price of the hides and skins in the untanned condition.	Facts
The relevant provisions of the Ordinance read2.	None
Special provisions in respect of tax on sale of hides and skins in certain cases 1.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Madras General Sales Tax Act., 1939 (Madras Act IX of 1939) (hereinafter referred to as the said Act), or in the rules made thereunder (hereinafter referred to as the said rules), the following provisions shall apply in respect of tax on sale of hides and skins during the period commencing on the 1st April 1955 and ending on the 31st March 1959.(i)	Facts
In the case of raw hides and skins, the tax under the said Act shall be levied from the dealer who is the last purchaser in the State and not exempt from taxation under subsec.	Facts
(3) of S. 3 of the said Act at the rate of two percent of the amount for which they are bought by him.(ii)	Facts
In the case of dressed hides and skins (which were not subjected to tax under the said Act as raw hides and skins), the tax under the said Act shall be levied from the dealer who in the State in the first seller in such hides and skins not exempt from taxation under subs.	Facts
(3) of S. 3 of the said Act at the rate of two percent of the amount for which such hides and skins were last purchased in the untanned condition.x x x xExplanation II.	Facts
For the removal of doubts it is hereby declared that in respect of sales to which subs.	Facts
(1) applies, nothing in R. 16 of the Madras General Sales Tax (Turnover and Assessment) Rules, 1939, shall apply or shall be deemed ever to have applied.2.	Facts
Any dealer in hides and skins who has been finally assessed under the provisions of the said Act and the said rules, may within a period of ninety days from the date of the commencement of this Ordinance apply to the authority or officer concerned for reassessment under the provisions of this Ordinance along with the correct and complete returnx x x x3.	Facts
Subject to the provisions of subs.	Facts
(1), the provisions of the said Act and the said rules shall be deemed to be in force for the purpose of assessment or reassessment and recovery of the tax on sale of hides and skins during the period mentioned in subs.	Facts
(1) and, notwithstanding any provision regarding limitation in the said Act and the said rules, it shall be competent for the authority or officer concerned to assess or reassess and recover the tax on sale of hides and skins during the period mentioned in subs.	Facts
(1) as if this Ordinance had been in force at the relevant time.4.	Facts
The amount of the tax on sale of hides and skins during the period mentioned in subsec.	Facts
(1) already collected from any dealer shall be adjusted towards the tax due from him on such sale as a result of assessment or reassessment in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance and if the tax on such assessment or reassessment(i) is in excess of the amount of tax on such sale of hides and skins already collected from such dealer, such excess shall be recovered from him or(ii) is less than the amount of tax on such sale of hides and skins already collected from such dealer, the difference shall be refunded to him.x x	Facts
x x xOn July 12, 1963, the Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal, Madras dealt with the appeals of the petitioners against the assessment for the years 195556 and 195657 and in view of S. 2(3) of the Ordinance, set aside the orders of assessment and remanded the matter for reassessment in accordance with the provisions of the aforesaid Ordinance.5.	None
On August 28, 1963 the Act received the assent of the Governor.	Facts
Subs.	Facts
(2) of S. 1 provided that the Act would be deemed to have come into force on June 10, 1963.	Facts
Subsection (1) of S. 2 of the Act reads (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939 (Madras Act IX of 1939) (hereinafter referred to as the said Act, or in the rules made thereunder (hereinafter referred to as the said rules) during the period commencing on the 1st April, 1955 and ending on the 31st March 1959, in respect of sale of dressed hides and skins (which were not subjected to tax under the said Act as raw hides and skins), the tax under the said Act shall be levied from the dealer who in the State is the first seller in such hides and skins not exempt from taxation under subsec.	Facts
(3) of S. 3 of the said Act at the rate of two percent of the amount for which such hides and skins were last purchased in the untanned condition.	Facts
Explanation I.The burden of proving that a transaction is not liable to taxation under this subsection shall be on the dealer.	Facts
Explanation II.For the removal of doubts it is hereby declared that in respect of sales to which subs.(1) applies, nothing in R. 16(2) of the Madras General Sales Tax (Turnover and Assessment) Rules, 1939, shall apply or shall be deemed ever to have applied.6.	Facts
It is to be noticed that S. 2(1) of the Act is in respect of tax on sale of dressed hides and skins and not in respect of tax on sale of raw hides and skins with which cl.	Facts
(i) of S. 2(1) of the Ordinance dealt.	Facts
Consequently the other provisions of the other subsections of S. 2, though practically the same as those of the Ordinance, have been suitably modified.	Facts
They are therefore not set out.7.	Facts
It is the validity of S. 2 of the Act that is challenged in these petitions, on the ground that it violates the provisions of Art. 14, 19(i) (f) and (g), 31,286(2), 301 and 304 of the Constitution for the following reasons 1.	Facts
Persons who had purchased raw hides and skins in the State of Madras in the years 195556 and 195657 paid sales tax at 3 pies per rupee and paid no further tax when those hides, after being tanned, were sold.	Reasoning
The petitioners having purchased raw hides and skins from outside the State, did not at the time pay tax at that rate on the purchase price of the raw hides and skins but were now liable, under the impugned provision, to pay tax at the rate of 2 of the amount for which such hides and skins were last purchased in untanned condition.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus the petitioner would pay a higher tax than what was paid by the seller of dressed hides and skins purchased in the State in the raw condition and then tanned and sold and that therefore S. 2 (1) discriminates against imported untanned hides and skins.2.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the case of sale of dressed hides and skins, S. 2(1) levies a tax at the rate of 2 of the amount for which hides and skins in the untanned condition were last purchased by a dealer himself outside the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
S. 2(1) creates discrimination between the case of a local merchant selling locally dressed hides and skins and the case where the dealer who is the first seller in the State and who purchased only dressed hides and skins outside the State and then sold them in the State for in his case he had not purchased such hides and skins in the untanned condition and has therefore not become liable to be assessed under S. 2(1).3.	Arguments of Petitioner
Parliament had by The Essential Goods (Declaration and Regulation of Tax on Sale or Purchase) Act 52 of 1952 declared hides and skins essential for the life of the community.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Act provided for taxation on the sale of hides and skins during the period such declaration was in force i.e. between 1.4.1955 and 1191956 and therefore required the assent of the President, in view of Art. 286(3) of the Constitution as it stood prior to its repeal in September 1956.	Arguments of Petitioner
As no such assent had been received, the Act cannot affect the sales prior to September 11, 1956 and so no tax can be levied in respect of those sales.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
Rule 16(1) became invalid when this Court held R. 16(2) invalid.	Arguments of Petitioner
Rule 16(1) has not been revived by the new Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It follows that no tax on sale of raw hides and skins during the period 195557 is valid and that therefore the imposition of a tax under subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) of S. 2 of the impugned Act imposes a tax on the imported hides and skins when sold in the State in the tanned condition while no tax is to be levied on the sale of the hides and skins purchased in the State in the raw condition, then tanned and sold.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
These contentions are sought to be met for the respondent State on the following grounds 1.	None
It is open to the legislature to treat dressed hides and skins as a separate category from raw hides and skins.	None
They are in fact commercially different commodities and that therefore different rates of tax for the two different categories of goods can be legally levied.	Arguments of Respondent
No discrimination is made between locally tanned goods and outsidetanned goods as in both cases tax is levied on the first sale of such goods within the State.	Arguments of Respondent
It does not matter that the hides and skins tanned locally do not attract that liability on the first sale in view of their having been taxed earlier at the untanned stage because of the special provision of exemption.2.	Arguments of Respondent
It is not correct that S. 2(1) will not apply to a dealer purchasing tanned hides and skins outside the State and selling them within the State.	Arguments of Respondent
It is not necessary that the seller of the tanned hides and skins in the State be himself the last purchaser of the untanned hides and skins for the purpose of his liability under S. 2(1).3.	Arguments of Respondent
Art.	Arguments of Respondent
286(3) as it stood prior to the amendment in 1956 imposed fetters only on post Constitutional law	Arguments of Respondent
and therefore it could not operate on the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939, which had been enacted much earlier S. 2(1) of the impugned Act simply lays down the machinery for the assessment and collection of tax imposed by S. 3 as modified by S. 5 of the 1939 Act which did not require Presidential assent.4.	Arguments of Respondent
The decision of this Court in Firm A.T.B. Mehtabs case, AIR 1963 SC 928 does not affect the validity of R. 16(1).	Arguments of Respondent
Subrule (1), and Subrule (2) of R. 16 are severable.9.	None
We are of opinion that the first contention for the petitioners is sound.10.	None
The effect of subs.	Reasoning
(1) of S. 2 of the Act is the same as was the effect of subrule(2) of R. 16 of the Turnover and Assessment Rules 1939, and which was held to be invalid by this Court in Mehtabs case, AIR 1963 SC 928 .	Reasoning
The impugned subsection provides for the assessment of tax on the sale of dressed hides and skins which were not subject to tax under the 1939 Act as raw hides and skins and thus exempts from taxation, in accordance with the provisions of subs.	Reasoning
(1) of S. 2 of the Act the sale of tanned hides and skins with respect to which tax had been paid on their sale in the raw condition.	Reasoning
Such tanned hides and skins had been exempted from taxation under subcl.	Reasoning
(ii) of R. 2 of the Turnover and Assessment Rules.	Reasoning
The same is the position in the present case.	Reasoning
The present rule therefore is discriminatory and invalid for the same reasons which led this Court to hold subrule(2) of R. 16 invalid in Mehtabs case, AIR SC 928.	Reasoning
There is no escape from this conclusion.11.	Reasoning
In the earlier case, discrimination was brought about on account of sale price of tanned hides and skins to be higher than the sale price of untanned hides and skins, though the rate of tax was the same, while in the present case, the discrimination does not arise on account of difference of the price on which the tax is levied as the tax on the tanned hides and skins is levied on the amount for which those hides and skins were last purchased in the untanned condition, but on account of the fact that the rate of tax on the sale of tanned hides and skins is higher than that on the sale of untanned hides and skins.	Reasoning
The rate of tax on the sale of tanned hides and skins is 2 on the purchase price of those hides and skins in the untanned condition while the rate of tax on the sale of raw hides and skins in the State during 1955 to 1957 is 3 pies per rupee.	Reasoning
The difference in tax works out to 7/1600th of a rupee, i.e., a little less than 1/2 naya paise per rupee.	Reasoning
Such a discrimination would affect the taxation upto the 1st of August 1957 when the rate of tax on the sale of raw hides and skins was raised to 2 of the sale price.12.	Reasoning
The second contention has no force.	Reasoning
There is nothing in subsec.	Reasoning
(1) of S. 2 of the Act to suggest that the seller of the tanned hides and skins in the State, should himself be the purchaser of those hides and skins in the raw condition from outside the State.	Reasoning
An importer can import tanned hides and skins as well as untanned hides and skins from outside the State.	Reasoning
If he imports tanned hides and skins, he need not necessarily be the last purchaser of this hides and skins in the untanned condition.	Reasoning
In that case, it may be difficult to assess the tax on the basis laid down in subsec.	Reasoning
(1) of S. 2, as the importer may not be able to inform about the price at which those hides and skins were last purchased.	Reasoning
Such a price may then have to be determined by estimate.	Reasoning
In case the importer himself purchases the untanned hides and skins and then imports them either in the same condition or in the tanned condition, there would be no such difficulty.	Reasoning
The difficulty existing in the former case does not necessarily mean that the importer of tanned hides and skins when he himself is not the last purchaser, cannot be taxed under subs.	Reasoning
(1) of S. 2 of the Act.13.	Issue
The next question is whether subrule (1) of R. 16 became invalid when this Court declared subrule (2) invalid in Mehtabs case, AIR 1963 SC 928.	None
The contention for the petitioner is that it became invalid because hides and skins, whether tanned or untanned, constituted one commodity and that therefore tax cannot be levied on the sale of hides and skins in the raw condition when no tax is levied on the sale of hides and skins in the tanned condition.	None
It is contended for the State that they are different commodities, and constitute two separate categories for purposes of taxation.	None
We are inclined to the view that they form different categories.14.	None
Hides and skins in the untanned condition are undoubtedly different as articles of merchandise than tanned hides and skins.15.	None
It is urged for the petitioners that tanning is only a preservative process which makes no change in the nature of the article itself.16.	Arguments of Petitioner
The question whether tanned skins and hides are different commodities from raw skins and hides has been considered by Courts a few times.17.	None
In Government of Andhra v. Nagendrappa, 195657 STC 568 at p. 573 (AIR 1957 Andh Pra 297 at p. 299) is the observation The tanning of raw hides and skins is a manufacturing process as a result of which the product that emerges is different from the raw material.18.	None
In State of Andhra Pradesh v. Mohammad Azam Abdul Bari and Co.,19589 STC 231 at p. 237 (AIR 1958 Andh Pra 366 at p. 368) (FB) is also an observation to the same effect it being,The stage of collection is also appropriate as, after tanning, the hides and skins become different commodities19.	None
In Encyclopaedia Brittannica, Vol. 13, p. 845, it is stated, in connection with leather Leather is manufactured from the hides and skins of various animalsThe objet of tanning (or the manufacture of leather) is the conversion of the putrescible skin into a material which under ordinary conditions of use does not putrefy, and which can be wetted and subsequently dried without becoming hard or honny.20.	None
Reference may also be made to State of Travancore Cochin v. Shannmugha Vilas Cashewnut Factory, 1954	None
SCR 53 (AIR 1953 SC 333 ) in which it was held that raw cashewnuts become a different commodity commercially after the application of certain process as result of which they are converted into edible kernels.21.	None
It is therefore not correct to say that the process of tanning brings about no change in the raw hides and skins and that therefore both types of hides and skins form one commodity.22.	Reasoning
The petitioners rely on two cases in support of their contention that the tanned and untanned hides and skins do not form different commodities but constitute one commodity.23.	None
In Abdul Subban and Co. v. State of Madras, 196011 STC 173 at p. 184 (Mad) is the observation Section 14(3) of the Central Sales Tax Act 1956 (Act 74 of 1956) also treats hides and skins, whether dressed or raw, as a single commodity Since skins tanned or untanned, constitute only one class of goods and the sale of that class of goods can be taxed only at a single point, obviously there can be no tax on a sale of tanned goods, if tax has already been paid on an earlier transaction when those skins were untanned.	None
No reason is given why the two kinds of hides and skins are treated as a single commodity.24.	None
The other case relied on is Raghbir Chand Som Chand v. Excise and Taxation Officer, 196011 STC 149 (Punj).	None
This case does not directly concern hides and skins.	None
It however held that ginned cotton and unginned cotton constitute one commodity as the process of ginning just separates the seeds as the character or identity of cotton is not altered thereby, and as ginning is not a manufacturing process.	None
It was taken into consideration that the Constitution as well as the statutes dealing with the matter treat ginned and unginned cotton under the same head, indicating thereby that the legislature looked upon ginned and unginned cotton as one and the same thing.25.	None
The fact that certain articles are mentioned under the same heading in a statute or the Constitution does not mean that they all constitute one commodity.	None
The inclusion of several articles under the same heading may be for a reason other than that the articles constitute one and the same thing.26.	None
In this connection we may refer to the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1959.	None
Section 4 of this Act provides that the sales tax on the sale or purchase of declared goods will be payable at the rate and only at the point specified against each article in the II Schedule.27.	None
The Second Schedule refers to raw hides and skins separately from dressed hides and skins against serial No. 7.	Reasoning
The rate of tax is different and so is the point at which the tax is to be levied.	Reasoning
This will indicate that in 1959 the legislature in Madras considered raw hides and skins a different commodity from dressed hides and skins.	Reasoning
There is no good reason why the legislature be not attributed the same intention when it enacted the 1939 Act especially when there are other reasons also to point to the same conclusion.28.	Reasoning
We therefore hold that raw hides and skins and dressed hides and skins constitute different commodities of merchandise and they could therefore be treated as different goods for the purposes of the Act.29.	Reasoning
The provision of the Act at the relevant time for the levy of tax on the sale of hides and skins was S. 5.	None
Clause (vi) which reads Subject to such restrictions and conditions as may be prescribed, including conditions as to licences and licence fees(vi) the sale of hides and skins, whether tanned or untanned shall be liable to tax under S. 3, subsection (1) only at such single point in the series of Sales by successive dealers as may be prescribed.	None
In 1957 this provision was replaced by S. 5A(4) which read The sale of hides and skins, whether in a raw or dressed state, shall be liable to tax only at such single point in the series of sales by successive dealers as may be prescribed but at the rate of two percent on the turnover at that point.	None
The series of sales referred to in this provision, to our mind, meant the series of sales of each kind of hides and skins namely the series of sales of raw hides and skins and the series of sales of dressed hides and skins and do not mean a single series of sales which includes successive sale in the first instance of raw hides and skins and after tanning successive sales of tanned hides and skins.30.	None
The real question is whether these provisions treat raw hides and skins and dressed or tanned hides and skins as one class of goods for the purpose of taxation or as two different classes of goods.	None
If they treat them as one class of goods, the contention for the petitioner loses force as taxing of hides and skins at the time of their sale on a raw condition meets the requirements of law as hides and skins could be taxed only at a single point.	Reasoning
If the dressed or tanned hides and skins are not taxed at the time of their sale that does not offend against the statutory provisions.	Reasoning
No question of discrimination arises as a sale of raw hides and skins of whatever origin, i. e., whether produced in the State or imported into the State would be equally liable to the levy of tax.31.	Reasoning
If the statute treats both these kinds of hides and skins as different commodities the provision of subrule (1) of R. 16 providing for the levy of tax on raw hides and skins at a certain point even in the absence of any provision for the taxation of dressed hides and skins cannot be said to be discriminatory and invalid.	Reasoning
The articles to be taxed were not the same and the legislature could provide differently about their taxation.32.	Reasoning
We, therefore, hold that subrule (1) of R. 16 did not become invalid on this Courts declaring subrule (2) of that rule invalid in Mehtabs case, AIR 1963 SC 928.33.	Reasoning
The only question that now remains for consideration is whether the State legislature was competent to enact the provision of subs.	None
(1) of S. 2 of the Act.	Issue
Hides and Skins had been declared under Act LII of 1952 to be essential for the life of the community.	Arguments of Petitioner
Article 286(3) of the Constitution as it stood before its amendment by the Constitution VIth Amendment Act of 1956, on September 11, 1956, read No law made by the Legislature of a State imposing or authorising the imposition of, a tax on the sale or purchase of any such goods as have been declared by Parliament by law to be essential for the life of the community shall have effect unless it has been reserved for the consideration of the President and has received his assent.	None
This provision, however, did not apply to the 1939 Act which had been enacted much earlier than the commencement of the Constitution.	None
By August 28, 1963, when the Act was enacted by the Madras Legislature, Art.	Reasoning
286(3) had been amended and Act LII of 1952 had also been repealed.	Reasoning
Consequently there was no Constitutional requirement for the Act being reserved for the assent of the President before it could be enforced.	Reasoning
It is contended for the petitioner that the Act really enacted for a period, when if passed, it had to receive the Presidents assent for its enforcement and that therefore the State Legislature could not even in 1963 enact this provision affecting the taxation law in respect of the sale or purchase of goods which were goods declared essential for the life of the community.	Reasoning
We do not see why such a fetter be placed on the legislative power of the State legislature.	Reasoning
The State legislature is free to enact laws which would have retrospective operation.	Reasoning
Its competence to make a law for a certain past period, depends on its present legislative power and not on what it possessed at the period of time when its enactment is to have operation.	Reasoning
We therefore do not agree with this contention.34.	None
The matter can be looked at in a different way.	None
The 1939 Act required no assent of the President.	None
The State Legislature was doing in 1963 what the legislature enacting the 1939 Act was supposed to have enacted and therefore its enactment was not governed by the Constitutional requirement for an Act to be enacted during the period Act LII of 1952 was in force.35.	None
Lastly, it has been urged for the petitioner that hides and skins have been declared to be of special importance in interState trade or commerce by S. 14 of the Central Sales Tax Act of 1956.	Arguments of Petitioner
The tax imposed by subsec.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) of S. 2 of the Act is a tax on the sale of hides and skins in the course of interState trade or commerce and therefore fell within entry No. 92A of List I of Seventh Schedule and that therefore the State legislature was not competent to impose it.	Arguments of Petitioner
It could impose by virtue of entry No. 54 in List II of Seventh Schedule tax on the sale or purchase of goods subject to the provisions of entry No. 92A of List 1.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no force in this contention.	None
The tax is imposed on the sale which took place within the State.	Reasoning
The State legislature is competent to impose such a tax.	Reasoning
The mere fact that the article sold in the State had been brought from outside the state does not make the sale of that article a sale in the Course of interState trade or commerce.	Reasoning
It is only when A, in State X, purchased through a commission agent in a State Y and receives the articles purchased through the Commercial agency that the sale comes within the expression in the course of interState trade See 1954 SCR 53 at p 70 (AIR 1953 SC 333 at p. 339).36.	Reasoning
It has been argued for the State that the Act is not affected by the provisions of Art.	Arguments of Respondent
301 to 304 of the Constitution as they affect the legislative power with respect to Acts to operate in the future and not the power to enact Acts which would operate in the past.	Arguments of Respondent
We do not consider the contention sound.	None
The Act makes provision for a period subsequent to the commencement of the Constitution and therefore is to be subject to the provisions of the Constitution.37.	Reasoning
We therefore hold that subsec.	Reasoning
(1) of S. 2 of the Act discriminates against imported hides and skins which were sold up to the 1st of August 1957 upto which date the tax on sale of raw hides and skins was at the rate of 3 pies per rupee or 19/16th per cent.	Reasoning
This however does not mean that the subsection is valid with respect to the sales which took place subsequent to August 1, 1957.	Reasoning
The subsection being void in its provisions with respect to a certain initial period, we cannot change the provision with respect to the period as enacted to the period for which it could be valid as that would be rewriting the enactment.	Reasoning
We have therefore to hold subsec.	Reasoning
(1) of S. 2 void, and accordingly hold so.38.	None
In view of the provisions of subsection (1) of S. 2 being invalid the other provisions of that section become unenforceable.39.	Reasoning
We therefore allow the petitions with costs, one hearing fee, and hold S. 2(1) of the Act invalid and order the issue of a writ of mandamus to the State of Madras and the Sales tax Authorities under the Act to refrain from enforcing any of the provisions of S. 2 of the Act.40.	Decision
Petitions allowed.	None
