Deepak Verma, J. Leave granted.	None
Respondent No. 4  complainant, Living Water Finney, lodged an FIR on 05.09.2006 at 22.15 hrs with Odhav Police Station, Ahmedabad City, complaining therein that the Appellant has committed offences under Section 406, 420 and 506(1) of the Indian Penal Code (hereinafter shall be referred to as IPC).	None
Respondent No.4 was working as Administrative Officer in Amaaru Family Education Trust at Ahmedabad and claimed that he has been residing there, leading life peacefully.	None
He also stated that Shri Dharmendra P. Rami Laldbhai was running business of Siti Cable in Bapi Nagar area at Ahmedabad, was known to him for many years and both of them enjoyed good relations with each other.	None
Sometime in the year 2005, complainant had gone to Hyderabad at his wifes place where he had the occasion to watch God TV which influenced him deeply and profoundly touching his holy spirit.	None
He wanted to share his experience with the Christian community of Ahmedabad so that they may also be blessed through this religious channel.	None
On his return to Ahmedabad, he approached cable operator Mr. Lalabhai, owner of Siti Cable as mentioned above and requested him to have this channel also in the bouquet of channels offered by him.	None
He also contacted the Appellants Company directly, requesting it to allow broadcasting of God TV in certain areas of Ahmedabad through Siti Cables, Ahmedabad.	None
Eventually, with the aid and enterprise of Mr. Lalabhai, they were able to commence broadcasting of GOD TV in the eastern zone of Ahmedabad.	None
Initially, Mr. Lalabhai quoted Rs. 30 lacs for persuading all the three operators to commence the telecast of GOD TV in their respective areas in Ahmedabad but the same was settled for Rs. 10 lacs.	Facts
Thus, according to the complainant, Mr. Lalabhai (and 2 other cable operators) had agreed to broadcast, religious channel God TV at Ahmedabad, after the Appellant had agreed to pay a sum of Rs. 10 lacs to Mr. Lalabhai.7.	Facts
However, it appears that there was no Agreement in writing executed and entered into between Mr. Lalabhai and the Appellant.	Facts
Furthermore, there has not been any Agreement between complainant and either of the aforesaid two parties.	Facts
According to him, on his own, he had acted only as a mediator.8.	Facts
From time to time, the Complainant kept reminding the appellant about payment of the amount of Rs. 10 lacs to Mr. Lalabhai.	Facts
But according to the Complainant, the appellant deliberately avoided his communications.	Facts
In the meanwhile, the cable operators who had started telecasting God TV were also pressurizing the Complainant for the said amount.9.	Facts
As mentioned hereinabove for about five months, they enjoyed watching God TV without any disruption but thereafter the reception signals of the said channel developed some technical snag.	None
Thus, from October 2005, on account of poor quality of receivers, the reception was also not clear and was blurred.	Facts
He once again contacted the Appellant who agreed to send receiver to the Complainant.	Facts
After having received the said receiver, it was delivered to Mr. Lalabhai but as per the Complainants version, by that time the amount of Rs. 10 lacs as agreed to between Mr. Lalabhai and the present Appellant was still not paid.	Facts
Having failed to elicit a verbal response, the Complainant thereafter wrote a series of letters and sent emails to the Appellant, ultimately culminating in a notice dated 21.06.2006, to which the Appellant replied on 18.07.2006, denying all accusations and liabilities.	Facts
Then the problem started and Respondent No. 4 lodged the FIR against the Appellant as mentioned hereinabove.10.	Facts
After completion of the investigation, as per the FIR lodged by the Complainant on 05.09.2006, the Appellant was arrested at Chennai for commission of the said offences on 17.11.2006.	Facts
He was thus constrained to file an application under Section 437 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter shall be referred to as the Code) for grant of bail to him.	Facts
The same was granted to him on the conditions mentioned in the order dated 22.11.2006.11.	Facts
The Appellant, thereafter, was constrained to file the petition under Section 482 of the Code in the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad, with a prayer for quashing of the FIR bearing C.R. No. I371/2006 registered with Odhav Police Station and to stay further investigation in the case.	Facts
The said application came to be considered before the learned Single Judge on 11.1.2007.	Facts
By that time, charge sheet was already filed before the Competent Criminal Court.	Facts
Thus, learned Single Judge, was of the opinion that it was not a fit case to be entertained and refused to hear the petition on merits, even though the appellant was given liberty to file an application for his discharge before the Trial Court.	Facts
It may be noted that even in its impugned order the learned Single Judge has emphasized that he had not considered the case on merits.	Facts
Thus the Appellants petition was dismissed and interim order granted in his favour was vacated.12.	Facts
Now the Order dated 11.01.2007 passed by the learned Single Judge of the High Court in Appellants Criminal Application No. 1977 of 2006, is subject matter of challenge in this Appeal.	Facts
We have accordingly heard Mr. Huzefa Ahmedi with Mr. Shamik Sanjanwala for the Appellants Ms. Jesel, for respondent No 1,2 and 3 and Ms. Aparna Bhat for respondent No.4  Complainant at length.	None
Perused the record.	None
Learned counsel for the Appellant contended that even after going through the FIR, no case under Section 406 or 420 of the Penal Code was made out.	Arguments of Petitioner
The FIR was filed by a person who is indisputably not a contracting party and at best by his own admission, had acted only as a mediator, and had no cause of action to file the complaint.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has failed to produce any evidence worth the name in support of his allegation and legally acceptable that the contract was concluded, where under the Appellant was obliged to pay a sum of Rs. 10 lacs to Mr. Lalabhai.15.	Arguments of Petitioner
The allegations in the F.I.R. clearly discloses a civil dispute between the parties and the FIR seems to have been filed only with an intention to harass and humiliate the Appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
This was a preemptive move by the Complainant.16.	Arguments of Petitioner
A summary Civil Suit under Order 37 Rule II of Code of Civil Procedure (hereinafter to be referred as CPC) has already been filed by Dharmendra P. Rami Laldbhai against the Appellant and the Respondent No.4, Complainant herein, before the City Civil Court, Ahmedabad claiming a sum of Rs. 10 lacs together with interest thereon.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the said suit an unconditional leave to defend has already been granted to the Appellant and the matter is still pending.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the light of the aforesaid submissions, it was contended that it is a fit case where the FIR deserves to be quashed otherwise the same would amount to abuse of the process of law.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, the learned counsel for Respondents especially Respondent No. 4, contended that intention to cheat the complainant was clearly made out by the action of the Appellant, ultimately resulting in lodging of F.I.R. against Appellant and Respondent No.4 both.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Single Judge was fully justified in rejecting the Appellants Petition as it was not a fit case to invoke the jurisdiction conferred on the court under Section 482 of the CrPC.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, a prayer was made that no case for interference was made out and the Appeal be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
In the light of the rival contentions we have to examine whether cognizance of the offences could have been taken by the Competent Criminal Court in the light of the averments made by the complainant in the FIR.	Issue
Even though the learned counsel appearing for contesting parties have cited numerous authorities in support of their respective contentions, but in view of the well settled legal position of law, by long catena of cases of this Court, on this and related points, we are not dealing with each one of them separately and independently.	None
However, the ratio and gist of these would be reflected in our order.	None
In the instant case, we have to first examine whether any of the ingredients under Section 406, 420 or 506 (1) of the IPC have been made out to enable the Court to take cognizance thereof against the appellant or not.	None
Bare perusal of the FIR lodged by the complainant, would indicate that he had got in touch with the appellant so as to extend the benefit of Appellants Channel GOD TV to his other brethren residing at Ahmedabad.	None
For the said purposes, he had met the owner of Siti Cable, Bapi Nagar in Ahmedabad and negotiated a settlement for a sum of Rs. 10 lacs on behalf of the Appellants Company as the fee to be paid to Siti cable by Appellant for telecast of channel God TV in Ahmedabad.	None
Further grievance of the Complainant was that despite the telecast of GOD TV, the Appellant, as promised, failed to pay a sum of Rs. 10 lacs to the owners of Siti cables.	None
This is what has been mentioned in nutshell in the complainants FIR.	None
We have grave doubt, in our mind whether on such averments and allegations, even a prima facie case of the aforesaid offences could be made out against the present appellant.	None
Criminal breach of trust is defined under Section 405 of the IPC and 406 thereof deals with punishment to be awarded to the accused, if found guilty for commission of the said offence i.e. with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.	None
Section 420 of the IPC deals with cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property.	None
Cheating has been defined under Section 415 of the IPC to constitute an offence.	None
Under the aforesaid section, it is inbuilt that there has to be a dishonest intention from the very beginning, which is sine qua non to hold the accused guilty for commission of the said offence.	None
Categorical and microscopic examination of the FIR certainly does not reflect any such dishonest intention ab initio on the part of the appellant.	None
Section 506 of the IPC deals with punishment for criminal intimidation.	None
Criminal intimidation, insult and annoyance have been defined in Section 503 of the IPC but the FIR lodged by complainant does not show or reflect that any such threat to cause injury to person or of property was ever given by the Appellant to the Complainant.	None
Thus, from the general conspectus of the various sections under which the Appellant is being charged and is to be prosecuted would show that the same are not made out even prima facie from the Complainants FIR.	None
Even if the charge sheet had been filed, the learned Single Judge could have still examined whether the offences alleged to have been committed by the Appellant were prima facie made out from the complainants FIR, charge sheet, documents etc. or not.	None
In our opinion, the matter appears to be purely civil in nature.	Reasoning
There appears to be no cheating or a dishonest inducement for the delivery of property or breach of trust by the Appellant.	Reasoning
The present FIR is an abuse of process of law.	Reasoning
The purely civil dispute, is sought to be given a colour of a criminal offence to wreak vengeance against the Appellant.	Reasoning
It does not meet the strict standard of proof required to sustain a criminal accusation.26.	Reasoning
In such type of cases, it is necessary to draw a distinction between civil wrong and criminal wrong as has been succinctly held by this Court in Devendra Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P., 2009 (7) SCC 495 , relevant part thereof is reproduced hereinbelow	None
A distinction must be made between a civil wrong and a criminal wrong.	None
When dispute between the parties constitute only a civil wrong and not a criminal wrong, the courts would not permit a person to be harassed although no case for taking cognizance of the offence has been made out.	Reasoning
In fact, all these questions have been elaborately discussed by this Court in the most oft quoted judgment reported in 1992 (Suppl) 1 SCC 335 State of Haryana Vs. Bhajan Lal, where seven cardinal principles have been carved out before cognizance of offences, said to have been committed, by the accused is taken.	Reasoning
The case in hand unfortunately does not fall in that category where cognizance of the offence could have been taken by the court, at least after having gone through the F.I.R., which discloses only a civil dispute.28.	Reasoning
The Appellant cannot be allowed to go through the rigmarole of a criminal prosecution for long number of years, even when admittedly a civil suit has already been filed against the Appellant and Complainant Respondent No. 4, and is still subjudice.	Reasoning
In the said suit, the Appellant is at liberty to contest the same on grounds available to him in accordance with law as per the leave granted by Trial Court.	Reasoning
It may also be pertinent to mention here that the complainant has not been able to show that at any material point of time there was any contract, much less any privity of contract between the Appellant and Respondent No. 4  the Complainant.	Reasoning
There was no cause of action to even lodge an FIR against the Appellant as neither the Complainant had to receive the money nor he was in any way instrumental to telecast GOD TV in the central areas of Ahmedabad.	Reasoning
He appears to be totally a stranger to the same.	Reasoning
Appellants prosecution would only lead to his harassment and humiliation, which cannot be permitted in accordance with the principles of law.29.	Reasoning
Thus, looking to the matter from all angles, we are of the considered opinion that the prosecution of the Appellant for commission of the alleged offences would be clear abuse of the process of law.30.	Reasoning
The FIR under the circumstances deserves to be quashed at the threshold.	Decision
We accordingly do so.	Decision
The Appeal is, therefore, allowed.	Decision
The order of learned Single Judge is set aside.	Decision
The FIR dated 05.09.2006 lodged by Respondent No. 4  Complainant with Odhav Police Station, Ahmedabad stands quashed and all criminal proceedings emanating therefrom also stand quashed.	Decision
The parties to bear their respective costs.	Decision
