 K Thakker, J. Leave granted.	None
The present appeals are directed against common judgment and order passed by the High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh in Criminal Miscellaneous Nos. 49200M of 2003 and 30393M OF 2004.	Issue
Both the above petitions were filed by the respondentsaccused under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as the Code) for quashing First Information Report (FIR) lodged by the appellant herein for offences punishable under Sections 468, 406 read with 120B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).	None
Short facts giving rise to the present proceedings are that in 1998, appellant Suneet Gupta entered into a registered Partnership Firm with one Shashi Kant Mangla in the name and style of M s K.M. Agencies.	Facts
The said Firm was the stockist and distributor of consumer goods of M s Johnson Johnson, a Limited Multinational Company (M s Johnson Johnson Ltd. for short).	Facts
According to the appellant, partnership of M s K.M. Agencies had certain claims over M s Johnson Johnson Ltd. on account of freight, octroi paid for goods returned, display of goods of the company, etc.	Facts
It is the case of the appellant that the above claims were duly verified by the officials of M s Johnson Johnson Ltd.4.	Facts
In or about March, 2001, differences arose between the two partners of M s K.M. Agencies, i.e. between the appellant herein and Shashi Kant Mangla, the other partner.	Facts
The latter, therefore, joined another partnership firm of M s Mangla Agencies with Ravi Kant Mangla, Atul Gupta and two others.	Facts
It is the allegation of the appellant that Shashi Kant Mangla who was a partner along with the appellant of M s K.M. Agencies falsely, dishonestly and with a view to cheat and defraud the appellantcomplainant, misrepresented before M s Johnson Johnson Ltd. that the name of partnership firm of M s K.M. Agencies was changed to M s Mangla Agencies.	Facts
On the basis of such representation Shashi Kant Mangla informed M s Johnson Johnson Ltd. that payment which was required to be made by the Company (M s Johnson Johnson Ltd.) to M s K.M. Agencies should now be made to M s Mangla Agencies.	Facts
According to the appellant, M s Johnson Johnson Ltd. was aware of the fact that M s K.M. Agencies and M s Mangla Agencies were different M s K.M. Agencies, a partnership firm was never dissolved Suneet Gupta who was one of the partners of M s K.M. Agencies continued to remain partner of the said firm and Mr. Shashi Kant Mangla, one of the partners of M s K.M. Agencies had joined another partnership firm of M s Mangla Agencies and as such payment which was required to be made by M s Johnson Johnson Ltd. to M s K.M. Agencies could not be made to M s Mangla Agencies and yet such payment was made with a view to deprive M s K.M. Agencies and particularly appellantSuneet Gupta.	Facts
The appellantcomplainant, in the circumstances, was constrained to issue legal notice on March 4, 2003 to the respondents herein which was received by them on March 10, 2003.	Facts
In the said notice, the complainant stated that M s Johnson Johnson Ltd. was required to pay Rs.2,73,189.70 to M s K.M. Agencies but no such payment was made to M s K.M. Agencies.	Facts
It also came to the notice of the complainant that the amount has been misappropriated by partners of M s Mangla Agencies and officials of M s Johnson Johnson Ltd. colluded with the partners of M s Mangla Agencies and all of them had thus played fraud upon the complainant.	Facts
The appellant also filed a complaint before the Director General of Police, Chandigarh on May 2, 2003 and requested him to direct the police authorities to enquire into the matter.	Facts
It appears that necessary inquiry was made, the respondents submitted their replies, but nothing further was done in the matter.	Facts
The appellant, therefore, was constrained to lodge First Information Report (FIR)	Facts
No. 266 of 2003 on September 16, 2003, against all the accused for offences punishable under Sections 468, 406 read with 120B, IPC at Police Station, Sarabha Nagar, Ludhiana.	Facts
Police arrested respondent No. 3 Devinder Sabharwal, Anil Triloki Nath Sharma and Vivek Bhatnagar.	Facts
Respondent Nos. 1 and 2 herein as also Surrinder Mohan, proprietor of M s Key Ess Associates obtained anticipatory bail from the Sessions Court.	Facts
Other three accused persons, namely, Shashi Kant Mangla, Ravi Kant Mangla and Atul Gupta, all partners of M s Mangla Agencies were denied anticipatory bail by the learned Additional Sessions Judge.	Facts
During the pendency of their bail applications before the High Court, however, the prosecution made a statement that the presence of those three accused was not required in the case and consequently their bail petitions became infructuous.	Facts
Meanwhile, the respondents herein filed Criminal Miscellaneous Nos. 49200/2003 and 30393/2004 in the High Court of Punjab Haryana under Section 482 of the Code for quashing FIR registered against them.5.	Facts
The appellant also stated that a detailed inquiry was made by the Police.	Facts
It collected the entire evidence and found that prima facie case was made out against the accused persons and accordingly chargesheet was submitted on May 13, 2004 against accused persons, namely, Devinder Sabharwal, Vivek Bhatnagar, Anil Triloki Nath Sharma and Swami Raote.	Facts
Swami Raote evaded arrest and hence proceedings under Section 82 of the Code were initiated against him.	Facts
The prosecution put Shashi Kant Mangla, Ravi Kant Mangla and Atul Gupta, partners of M s Mangla Agencies in Column No.2 while Surrinder Mohan was made a prosecution witness.	Facts
The prosecution then moved an application under Section 190 read with Sections 239 and 240 of the Code for summoning Shashi Kant Mangla, Ravi Kant Mangla and Atul Gupta as accused persons for trial.6.	Facts
The High Court vide the impugned order dated August 1, 2006, allowed both the petitions and quashed FIR lodged by the appellant.	Facts
It is this order which is challenged by the appellant in the present appeals.7.	Facts
Notice was issued by this Court on April 27, 2007, counteraffidavit and affidavitinrejoinder were thereafter filed and the matters were ordered to be posted for final disposal.	Facts
That is how the matters are before us.	Facts
We have heard the learned counsel for the parties.	None
The learned counsel for the appellant contended that the High Court was wholly in error in quashing FIR lodged by the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that from the allegations levelled in the FIR prima facie case for offences punishable under Sections 468, 406 read with 120B, IPC had been made out.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, what is seen at this stage is whether on the basis of the allegations made in the complaint, prima facie case has been made out against the accused and not whether trial against them would ultimately result in conviction of the accused.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was the case of the appellant in the complaint that two partnership firms of M s K.M. Agencies and M s Mangla Agencies were distinct, different and independent of each other.	Arguments of Petitioner
So far as M s K.M. Agencies is concerned, there were only two partners, the appellant and Shashi Kant Mangla.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shashi Kant Mangla became one of the partners of other partnership firm as well, i.e. of M s Mangla Agencies.	Arguments of Petitioner
But the appellantcomplainant had nothing to do with the other partnership firm, (M s Mangla Agencies).	Arguments of Petitioner
Dues of M s K.M. Agencies which were to be paid by M s Johnson Johnson Ltd. could not, in the circumstances, be diverted to the other partnership firm with which the appellantcomplainant had no connection whatsoever.	Arguments of Petitioner
All the partners of M s Mangla Agencies and all the officials of M s Johnson Johnson Ltd. were aware of this fact and yet in collusion with each other and with a view to deprive M s K.M. Agencies in general and the appellantcomplainant in particular, payment was made by M s Johnson Johnson Ltd. to M s Mangla Agencies.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus prima facie all the accused had committed offences mentioned in the FIR and the High Court should not have quashed it.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court was also not right, submitted the counsel, in holding that it was a civil dispute and there was abuse of process of law on the part of the complainant in initiating criminal proceedings.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that apart from civil liability, the accused persons had committed crimes and on the basis of allegations in the FIR, and on investigation being made, the police authorities found substance in the allegations of the complainant and chargesheet was submitted.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was, therefore, submitted that the appeal deserves to be allowed by setting aside the order passed by the High Court by directing the respondents to face criminal proceedings.10.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the contesting respondents supported the order passed by the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that the dispute is of a civil nature.	Arguments of Respondent
It was a dispute between two partnership firms and initiation of criminal proceedings was only with a view to use pressure against the accused so that they will be constrained to enter into some settlement with the complainant.	Arguments of Respondent
As per settled law, a court of law cannot be used as a means to pressurize the opposite party so that he may accede to the demand of the complainant.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court was convinced that on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, no criminal proceedings could have been initiated and hence, quashed the proceedings which cannot be said to be illegal or contrary to law.	Arguments of Respondent
It was, therefore, submitted that the appeals deserve to be dismissed.11.	Arguments of Respondent
On behalf of respondent No. 4, an affidavit is filed by PPS, Dy.	Arguments of Respondent
Superintendent of Police, Sarabha Nagar, Ludhiana stating therein that the matter involved determination of complicated points of facts and law which could not have been gone into by the High Court in a writ petition.	Arguments of Respondent
It was stated that detailed inquiry by PPS, Dy.	Arguments of Respondent
Superintendent of Police, Sarabha Nagar, Ludhiana revealed that there was prima facie case of commission of offences punishable under Sections 468, 406 read with 120B, IPC.	Arguments of Respondent
Some accused were arrested also.	Arguments of Respondent
In the circumstances, the High Court could not have aborted the proceedings as has been done.	Arguments of Respondent
Having heard the learned counsel for the parties and having considered the rival contentions, in our opinion, it cannot be said that the High Court was wrong in quashing criminal proceedings.	Reasoning
It is clear from the case put forward by the appellant himself that virtually the proceedings were civil in nature.	Reasoning
There were two partnership firms, one M s K.M. Agencies, consisting of appellant and Shashi Kant Mangla and the other of M s Mangla Agencies wherein Ravi Kant Mangla (one of the partners of M s K.M. Agencies) was a partner.	Reasoning
It was the case of Shashi Kant Mangla that M s K.M. Agencies was no more in existence and it had changed its name from M s K.M. Agencies to M s Mangla Agencies and all the transactions of M s K.M. Agencies would thereafter be dealt with by M s Mangla Agencies.	Reasoning
Obviously, therefore, payments which were to be made to M s K.M. Agencies should be made to M s Mangla Agencies.	Reasoning
It also appears that M s Johnson Johnson Ltd. was informed which changed the Code from M s K.M. Agencies to M s Mangla Agencies.	Reasoning
It is further clear that though payments were made in JuneJuly, 2001 by M s Johnson Johnson Ltd. to M s Mangla Agencies, a notice through an advocate was issued by the complainant only on March 4, 2003, i.e. after substantial period about two years.	Reasoning
A complaint was made to Director General of Police, Chandigarh by the complainant in May, 2003.	Reasoning
The record further reveals, as stated by respondent Nos. 1, 2 and 3 in the counteraffidavit, that it was contended by the accused that the matter was civil in nature and based on commercial transactions and there was a dispute between the parties and as such there was no element of mens rea.	Reasoning
It was also submitted by the accused that the complainant, with an ulterior motive and mala fide intention, used pressure tactics and was harassing them in connivance with local police and filed a complaint on May 2, 2003.	Reasoning
The police authorities were convinced about the nature of dispute and after seeking legal opinion from District Attorney closed the proceedings.	Reasoning
Subsequently, however, the complainant after making cosmetic changes in the earlier complaint and using undue influence filed FIR No. 266 of 2003 on September 16, 2003 for commission of offences punishable under Sections 468, 406 read with 120B, IPC.	Reasoning
According to the accused, it was motivated and the police authorities obliged the complainant by helping him.13.	Reasoning
The High Court, in our opinion, rightly considered the facts in their proper perspective and observed that the dispute related to settlement of accounts between principal and its agent the principal being M s Johnson Johnson Ltd. and the agent being M s K.M. Agencies (earlier) and M s Mangla Agencies (later).	Reasoning
The High Court also noted that it was M s K.M. Agencies which informed the principal i.e. M s Johnson Johnson Ltd. that M s K.M. Agencies had closed its business and the business was thereafter continued by M s Mangla Agencies and all drafts be issued in favour of M s Mangla Agencies.	Reasoning
The High Court took note of the fact that even the complainant had informed the principal that there was dispute between the partners of M s K.M. Agencies and hence no payment should be made to M s Mangla Agencies till the dispute was finally resolved between the parties.	Reasoning
That, however, does not give rise to criminal liability and entitle the complainant to initiate criminal proceedings, particularly when M s Johnson Johnson Ltd. substituted in the Company record name of M s Mangla Agencies in place of M s K.M. Agencies.	Reasoning
The resultant effect of substitution of name was that whatever sums were due to M s K.M. Agencies were considered to be due to M s Mangla Agencies.	Reasoning
The High Court, in the circumstances, observed as under This is really a case of one partner trying to drag the principal company into a criminal litigation to recover dues which the principal had paid to the other partner.	None
The dispute and the relationship inter se has become a tripartite one.	None
Suneet Gupta had a dispute with Shashi Kant Mangla but instead of tackling him he got lodged F.I.R. No. 266 dated September 16, 2003 registered at Police Station Sarabha Nagar, Ludhiana, under Sections 468/406/120BIPC to pressurize the petitioners to settle the matter.	None
It is not a clear cut and direct case in which any contractual relationship between Suneet Gupta with the company has been breached.	None
Indeed Suneet Gupta had no direct relationship with the company.	None
It was M s K.M. Aencies of which he was one of the partners which had developed contractual relationship and later in June July, 2001, M s Mangla Agencies got substituted in place of M s K.M. Agencies.	None
Suneet Gupta either ignored this development or remained oblivious of it for nearly 2 years.	None
The first notice was issued after passage of long time on March 4, 2003.	None
This notice was clearly to drag the company into the inter se dispute between two partners.	None
The Court proceeded to state The complaint of Suneet Gupta and the steps taken by the police have clearly converted a tripartite civil dispute into a criminal one and have involved the managers of the principals in a dispute between the partners of the firm.	None
The High Court, therefore, concluded that the steps taken by the complainant Suneet Gupta were in clear abuse of process of law and accordingly allowed both the petitions.17.	Reasoning
By passing the impugned order and quashing criminal proceedings, in our opinion, the High Court has neither committed any error of law nor of jurisdiction which deserves interference in exercise of power under Article 136 of the Constitution.18.	Reasoning
Our attention has been invited by the learned counsel for the accused to several decisions of this Court.	Reasoning
In our opinion, however, it is not necessary to refer to those decisions since we are of the view that the High Court was right in quashing criminal proceedings.	Reasoning
We may, however, refer to one aspect.	None
Learned Counsel for the appellant strenuously relied upon an order of this Court in State of Punjab v. Dharam Vir Singh Jethi, 1994 SCC (Cri) 500.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that case, chargesheet was submitted by Police and thereafter FIR was quashed by the High Court.	None
In the light of the said fact, this Court observed Heard learned counsel for the State as well as the contesting respondent.	None
We are afraid that the High Court was not right in quashing the First Information Report on the plea that the said respondent had no role to play and was never the custodian of the paddy in question.	None
In fact it was averred in the counteraffidavit filed in the High Court that the said respondent had acted in collusion with Kashmira Singh resulting in the latter misappropriating the paddy in question.	None
At the relevant point of time the respondent concerned, it is alleged, was in overall charge of the Government Seed Farm, Trehan.	None
This allegation forms the basis of the involvement of the respondent concerned.	None
The High Court was, therefore, wrong in saying that the respondent concerned had no role to play.	None
A specific role is assigned to him, it may be proved or may fail.	None
In any case, pursuant to the First Information Report the investigation was undertaken and a chargesheet or a police report under Section 173(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure was filed in the court.	None
If the investigation papers annexed to the chargesheet do not disclose the commission of any crime by the respondent concerned, it would be open to the court to refuse to frame a charge, but quashing of the First Information Report was not permissible.	None
In our opinion, however, the ratio laid down in the above case will not apply to the facts of the case.	None
As already indicated in the earlier part of the judgment, FIR was lodged by the complainant on September 16, 2003 and immediately within less than a month, the accused invoked the jurisdiction of the High Court under Section 482 of the Code by filing petitions on October 12, 2003.	None
At that time, challan was not filed in the Court.	None
It was after a substantial period of about seven months that on May 13, 2004, chargesheet was filed by the police authorities.	None
Moreover, in Dharam Vir Singh, the accused was shown to be in possession of property and later on misappropriated it.	None
The High Court, however, quashed the proceedings inter alia observing that the accused was never the custodian of paddy and was not in charge of the Government Seed Farm which was factually incorrect.	None
In the light of factual scenario, this Court set aside the order of the High Court quashing criminal proceedings.22.	None
In the case on hand, the High Court was right in coming to the conclusion that a civil dispute  pure and simple  between the parties was sought to be converted into a criminal offence only by resorting to pressure tactics and by taking police help which was indeed abuse of process of law and has been rightly prevented by the High Court.23.	Reasoning
For the foregoing reasons, in our view, the order passed by the High Court is in consonance with law and requires no interference.	Decision
The appeals deserve to be dismissed and are, accordingly, dismissed.	Decision
