 	None
S. Singhvi, J. Whether letter dated 16.11.1985 issued by the Director of Industries, Uttar Pradesh (appellant No.2) conveying acceptance of the bid given by the respondent for supply of 200 metric tonnes Zinc Sulphate, Agriculture Grade, could be treated as an agreement executed by the parties, whether the respondent could invoke the arbitration clause contained in the tender document, whether the Arbitrator appointed by Civil Judge (Senior Division), Lucknow (hereinafter referred to as the trial Court) acted in violation of the rules of natural justice by declining the appellants prayer for adjournment and whether the award passed by the Arbitrator is vitiated by patent error of law are the questions which arise for consideration in this appeal filed by the State of U.P. and two others against the judgment of the Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court, which dismissed the appeal preferred by the appellants against the order passed by the trial Court making award of the Arbitrator Rule of the Court.	Issue
By an advertisement dated 19.8.1985, appellant No. 2 invited bids for supply of 2000 metric tonnes Zinc Sulphate of Agriculture Grade on quantity basis to meet the requirement of the Agriculture Department.	Facts
Clause 16 of the tender form, which has bearing on this case, reads thusTender Form In the event of any dispute arising out of or concerning this Agreement (except as to any matters the decision of which is specifically provided for in this Agreement), the same shall be referred to the arbitration of an Arbitrator nominated by the Director of Industries, Uttar Pradesh and an Arbitrator nominated by the contractor, or in the case of the contractor or the said Director failing to nominate an Arbitrator within the time fixed in the notice to be served on him by the said Director or the contractor, as the case may be by the Arbitrator, nominated by the said Director or the contractor, or in case of disagreement between the said Arbitrators to an Umpire appointed by them and the decision of such Arbitrators Arbitrator Umpire as the case may be, shall be final and binding on the parties.	Facts
The Arbitrators Arbitrator Umpire may from timetotime with the consent of the parties enlarge the time for making and publishing the award.	None
The bid given by the respondent (Rs. 5,451/ per metric tonne) was found to be the lowest.	None
The Purchase Committee of the Directorate of Industries approved the same.	Facts
Thereafter, appellant No. 2 issued acceptance letter dated 16.11.1985 to the respondent for supply of 200 metric tonnes of Zinc Sulphate to the Directorate of Agriculture.	Facts
The relevant portions of that letter are extracted below ACCEPTANCE LETTERFromValue Rs.10,90,200/(Rupees Ten Lacs Ninety Thousand Two Hundred only)The Director of Industries,Stores Purchase Department,Uttar Pradesh, Kanpur.	None
To,M s. Combined Chemicals Pvt.	Facts
Ltd.15/1, 2 5, Industrial Estate Vidisha464002.Ref.	Facts
No. SPS VIIT.NO.272(G)/85Dated(a)	Facts
This office tender notice inquiry No. 272(G)/85 dated 19.8.1985(b) Contractors tender quotation No.A4242/A80/4GP ZS dated 8.8.1985(c) Indentors Indent No. Dated(d)	Facts
Designation and full address of the indentor Director of Agriculture, U.P.(e)	Facts
If rate contract  All Government Department and quasiGovernment Departments.	Facts
Dear Sir,On behalf of the Governor of Uttar Pradesh, I accept your tender quotation referred to above for the supply of stores as per details given in Schedule A hereafter subject to the terms and conditions specified in the tender notice inquiry referred to above and in this acceptance letter.2.	Facts
The supply order shall be placed on you by the indenting officer officers direct giving full instruction regarding dispatch, insurance of goods, name of consignee, destination, railway station, payment of bills, etc.4.	Facts
Period of ContractUntil the supply is satisfactorily completed in accordance with the aforesaid terms and conditions.7.	Facts
InspectionFor the purpose of this contract the consignee receipt shall be deemed as the inspection certificate unless an inspection is stipulated before despatch.	Facts
Ordinarily, the decision of the consignee or consignees as regards the acceptability or otherwise of the stores shall be final.	Facts
Defective supplier shall have to be replaced at your cost.10.	Facts
Formal AgreementIf so required, the successful tenderer shall have to execute a formal agreement deed within the time fixed by the Director of Industries.12.	Facts
You are required to send a statement giving details of order placed on you and executed by you against this contract together with their value, within one month after the expiry of this contract.14.	Facts
In the case of rate of contract order shall be placed by the officer of various Government Department directly.	Facts
In the case of quasi Government Departments, such as Local Bodies and Municipal Boards, etc.	Facts
the orders shall be placed this office.	Facts
Please acknowledge receipt.	Facts
Yours faithfully,	Facts
Sd For and on behalf of the Governor.	Facts
Uttar Pradesh.	Facts
Accompaniment Forms.	Facts
No.475(I)	Facts
SPS VIIT.NO.272(G)/85 of dated 16.11.1985 Copy forwarded (1) Director of Agriculture, U.P., Lucknow.(1)	Facts
He will please place a supply order on the firm immediately giving detailed instructions regarding despatch, insurance of goods, name of consignee, destination, railway station payment bills, etc.	Facts
If the supply is not effected in time he will please report to this office immediately about the delay in supplies.	Facts
SCHEDULE A DescriptionUnitPrice Per unitQuantity No.F.O.R.SPECIFICATIONS.	None
For M.T. Rs.5451/ 200 M.T. Destination.(Rs.	Facts
Five Thousand Four hundred and Fifty One only)Qty.	Facts
Two hundred Metric Tonnes only.	Facts
ZINC SULPHATE AGRICULTURE, GRADE ISI Mark with IS 82491976	Facts
The price shall remain firm till the supply is completed satisfactorily.	Facts
This contract shall exclusively be governed by the terms and conditions mentioned in the Acceptance letter, Tender Form and the Agreement Forms.	Facts
No other condition shall be acceptable.	Facts
Agreement form must be received to this office within 15 days from the date of issue of this Acceptance Letter.	Facts
The contract is being made for and on behalf of the Governor of U.P. (Emphasis supplied)4.The respondent deposited the security money and despatched a signed agreement to the Directorate of Agriculture for completion of other formalities.	Facts
It also sent letters to appellant No.3 for issue of supply order, but the latter did not respond apparently because the lowest rate of Rs. 4,500 per metric tonne quoted in response to another tender notice issued by appellant No.2 for supply of Zinc Sulphate on rate contract basis was substantially less than the rate quoted by the respondent and, therefore, the Purchase Committee decided to postpone implementation of the acceptance letter dated 16.11.1985.5.When the respondent learnt about the aforesaid decision, it served a notice upon the appellants and then filed a petition under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act, 1940 (for short, the Act) for appointment of an Arbitrator to decide the dispute relating to supply of 200 metric tonnes of Zinc Sulphate.	Facts
The same was registered as Regular Suit No. 244/1998.	Facts
In the written statement filed on behalf of the appellants, it was pleaded that the petition was not maintainable because no contract had been executed between the parties and no order for supply of the goods was placed with the respondent because the other firm had quoted much lower rate.6.By an order dated 28.3.1989, the trial Court overruled the objections raised on behalf of the appellants and held that a contract was indeed executed between the parties for supply of Zinc Sulphate.	Facts
The trial Court then referred to Clause 16 of the tender form and directed the parties to propose name of their respective Arbitrator within 20 days with the rider that if they fail to do so, then the Court will appoint an Arbitrator.7.The appellants did not nominate the Arbitrator.	Facts
Therefore, by an order dated 20.5.1989, the trial Court appointed Mr. Dipak Seth, Advocate as an Arbitrator.8.The Arbitrator fixed 6.8.1989 for preliminary hearing but no one appeared on behalf of the appellants.	Facts
The respondent filed statement of claim for award of compensation to the tune of Rs.	Facts
42,92,015.90 along with cost of Rs.	Facts
25,000/.	Facts
The details of the claim lodged by the respondent are reproduced below The Respondents agreed to purchase goods Rs. 5,451/ per metric tonne against production cost of 1985 at Rs. 4,674/ per tonne.	Facts
The production cost diminished to Rs. 2,895/ per tonne, consequently, the Respondents by breaking contract put the claimant to a direct loss of Rs.	Facts
5,11,200.00.B. The price quoted by the claimant at Rs. 5,451/ per tonne to the Respondents but on account of price variation in the market, where price slumped from Rs. 6,200/ to Rs. 3,900/ per tonne.	Facts
The respondents, therefore, inflicted loss at Rs. 2,300/ per tonne by breaking the contract.	Facts
The claimant entitled to Rs. 4,60,000/ on that account.	Facts
C. That the claimants tender in question to the respondents was its first major transaction after unit establishments and in view of pretended urgency, stipulation and regarding immediate supplies, etc.	Facts
the claimants procured raw material, engaged workmen to utilize full capacity of the unit by availing maximum drawing powers against working facilities.	Facts
Total quantity required under the agreement was produced under explicit intimation to the respondents.	Facts
The on account of respondents failure to accept delivery and consequent nonpayment of agreed price, the claimant had to incur the following direct losses namely(a)Amount of interest to M.P. Financial Corporation from 1.10.85 to 20.09.89 on its loan worth Rs.	Facts
29,50,000/ 12.5 per annum.	Facts
Rs. 11,06.250/(b)Amount of interest paid to the State Bank of Indore 16.5 per annum quarterly rest.	Facts
Rs.	Facts
7,26,750/(c)Staff workmen of the claimant remained idle for the period 1.10.85 to 30.9.1988 when the Unit was declared sick and financial institution agreed to nurse but the claimant had to pay salary and wages amounting to Rs. 4,23,075.90.	Facts
Consequently, the respondents are liable to compensate the claimant.	Facts
D. That on account of business completely during 1.10.85 to 30.9.88, the claimant also suffered loss of direct profit much loss at Rs. 777.00 per tonne of instal capacity and still could utilize 60 the said capacity.	Facts
The respondents are, therefore, liable to compensate to the extent of Rs. 9,79,020.00.E. That the claimant are to pay interest to M.P. Financial Corporation and State Bank of Indore at the rate not less than 12 per annum compoundable quarterly, therefore, till the respondents actually pay the above said sums, the said respondents are liable to compensate to the extent of amounts claimant may suffer on these accounts.	Facts
The claimant, therefore, prays for the following reliefs against the respondents jointly, severally or in alternative(A)	Facts
That by an award, the claimant be declared entitled to recover and receive Rs.	Facts
42,92,015/ towards and on account of compensation for loss suffered due to breach of contract and the respondents, jointly, severally or in alternative be directed to pay the same within a time fixed for the purpose.(B) Rs. 25,000/ be awarded towards costs of these proceedings and,(C)	Facts
The respondents be directed to compensate the claimants in lieu of the amounts realized by the MPFC and State Bank of Indore till date of actual payment in full of the amount claimed above.	None
On 1.10.1981, Shri B.K. Bajpai, Accountant in the office of the Director of Agriculture, appeared before the Arbitrator and sought 15 days time to intimate the fate of the appeal filed against order dated 28.3.1989, which was pending before the High Court.	None
On the next date of hearing i.e., 1.11.1989, Shri Irshad Hussain appeared on behalf of the Director of Agriculture and made a request for adjournment on the ground that appellant Nos. 1 and 2 were intending to file an application for stay of proceedings pending before the Arbitrator.	Facts
However, no stay order appears to have been passed by the High Court in the pending appeal.	Facts
Therefore, the Arbitrator passed an ex parte award dated 17.11.1989 and allowed the respondents claim to the extent of Rs.	Facts
23,44,200/ with interest at the rate of 6 per annum from the date of the award till the date of payment.	Facts
Soon thereafter, the respondent filed Regular Suit No.537 of 1989 for making the award Rule of the Court.	Facts
The appellants filed objections and reiterated their plea that no contract had been executed between the parties.	Facts
They also pleaded that the Arbitrator had committed an error by refusing to adjourn the matter ignoring that the appeal filed against order dated 28.3.1989 was pending before the High Court.	Facts
The trial Court rejected the objections and passed order dated 25.11.2004 whereby the award of the Arbitrator was made Rule of the Court.10.When First Appeal No. 165/1989 filed by the appellants against the first order of the trial Court was taken up for hearing, it was brought to the notice of the High Court that the Arbitrator has already pronounced the award.	Facts
After taking cognizance of this fact, the Division Bench of the High Court dismissed the appeal as infructuous with liberty to the parties to challenge the award on any legally permissible ground.11.The appellants challenged trial Courts order dated 25.11.2004 in First Appeal No.533 of 2005.	Facts
While admitting the appeal, the High Court stayed execution of the award subject to the condition of deposit of Rs. 10 lacs.	Facts
Accordingly, the appellants deposited the amount, which was withdrawn by the respondent.12.By the impugned judgment, the High Court finally dismissed by the appeal.	Facts
The appellants objection to the appointment of the Arbitrator on the ground that no contract had been executed between the parties was overruled by the High Court by relying upon the judgments of this Court in Unionof India Ors.	Facts
v. N.K. Private Ltd. and Anr., (1973) 3 SCC 388 Sardar Sucha Singh v. Union of India, (1987)	Facts
SCC (Suppl.)	Facts
127 and J.K. Jain and Ors.	Facts
v. DelhiDevelopment Authority and Ors., I (1996)	Facts
CLT 303 (SC)(1995) 6 SCC 571.	Facts
The High Court also rejected the appellants plea that refusal of the Arbitrator to adjourn the proceedings to await the result of the first appeal filed against order dated 28.3.1989 amounted to violation of the rules of natural justice and held that in the absence of a stay by the High Court, the Arbitrator was entitled to proceed with the matter and the appellants did not have any legitimate cause to abstain from the arbitration proceedings.	Facts
Mrs. Shobha Dikshit, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellants referred to various clauses of the tender form and acceptance letter dated 16.11.1985 and argued that no contract can be said to have come into existence between the parties because the agreement was not signed as per the requirement of Article 299 of the Constitution and the High Court committed serious error by treating the acceptance letter as a contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Senior Counsel pointed out that an agreement was required to be executed and signed by the parties in the proforma prescribed for the purpose, but no such agreement was either executed or signed and, therefore, the conclusion recorded by the trial Court and the High Court that a contract had been executed between the parties is legally unsustainable.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mrs. Dikshit further argued that the award of the Arbitrator is vitiated because it is totally devoid of reasons and the Courts below committed serious error by refusing to annul the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mrs. Dikshit referred to the award of the Arbitrator to show that after reproducing the claim made by the respondent and making a bald reference to the affidavit filed on its behalf, the Arbitrator straightaway accepted the claim to the extent of Rs.	Arguments of Petitioner
23,44,200/ and submitted that such award cannot be treated as an award in the eye of law.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of her arguments, the learned Senior Counsel relied upon the judgments of this Court in Punjab SEB v. Punjab PreStressed Concrete Works, VIII (2000)	Arguments of Petitioner
SLT 683(2002) 9 SCC 740 and Dresser Rand S.A. v. Bindal Agro Chem Ltd., I (2006)	Arguments of Petitioner
SLT 359126 (2006) DLT 437 (SC)I (2006) CLT 133 (SC)(2006) 1	Arguments of Petitioner
SCC 751.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Rishi Agarwal, learned Counsel appearing for the respondent argued that a contract will be deemed to have been executed between the State Government and the respondent because the acceptance letter was issued in the name of the Governor.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Counsel submitted that once the acceptance of the tender was communicated, the contract became complete and the respondent was entitled to invoke the arbitration clause.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of his argument, the learned Counsel relied upon the judgments in Sardar Sucha Singh v. Union of India (supra) Smita Conductors Ltd. v. Euro Alloys Ltd., VI (2001)	Arguments of Respondent
SLT 361(2001) 7 SCC 728 Nimet Resources Inc. v. Essar Steels Ltd., VII (2000)	Arguments of Respondent
SLT 166(2000) 7 SCC 497 and UNISSI India (P) Ltd. v. Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, IX (2008)	Arguments of Respondent
SLT 145(2009) 1 SCC 107.	Arguments of Respondent
We have given our serious thought to the respective arguments.	None
A reading of letter dated 16.11.1985 shows that the same was issued for and on behalf of the Governor of Uttar Pradesh.	None
In the opening paragraph of the letter, appellant No.2 indicated that the bid given by the respondent was being accepted on behalf of the Governor of Uttar Pradesh.	None
At the end of that letter and Schedule A appended thereto, it was clearly mentioned that the contract was being made for and on behalf of the Governor of Uttar Pradesh.	None
The contents of paragraphs 4, 7, 12 and 14 show that the appellant Nos. 1 and 2 had awarded a contract to the respondent for supply of 200 metric tones Zinc Sulphate of Agriculture Grade for a total price of Rs.	None
10,95,200/ and the terms and conditions mentioned in the acceptance letter, tender form and the agreement forms were treated as part of the contract.	None
The schedule of supply was also indicated in the acceptance letter.	None
Clause 10 of the terms and conditions embodied in the acceptance letter did speak of formal agreement, but the same was to be executed only if required.	None
Undisputedly, the respondent completed all the formalities inasmuch as it deposited the security money and despatched a duly signed agreement to the Directorate of Agriculture, which was to take the supply of Zinc Sulphate, and also sent letters for placing the supply order.	None
Thus, a contract had come into existence between the parties and the fact that the Director of Agriculture did not sign the formal agreement sent by the respondent cannot lead to an inference that the contract had not been executed.	None
This view is consistent with the plain language of Section 5 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, Subsection (1) whereof lays down that a contract of sale is made by an offer to buy or sell goods for a price and the acceptance of such offer.	None
That subsection further lays down that the contract may provide for the immediate delivery of the goods or immediate payment of the price or both, or for the delivery or payment by instalments, or that the delivery or payment or both shall be postponed.	None
Subsection (2) of Section 5 lays down that subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force, a contract of sale may be made in writing or by word of mouth, or partly in writing and partly by word of mouth or may be implied from the conduct of the parties.	None
In this case, the bid given by the respondent amounted to an offer to sell goods i.e., Zinc Sulphate of Agriculture Grade at the rate of Rs. 5,451/ per metric tonne, which was duly accepted by the competent authority by issuing letter dated 16.11.1985.	None
Therefore, the argument of Mrs. Dikshit that contract had not been executed between the parties merits rejection.	None
The judgment of this Court in Dresser Rand S.A. v. Bindal Agro Chem Ltd. (supra) on which reliance has been placed by Mrs. Dikshit is distinguishable.	None
The factual matrix of that case show that the respondent had sent a telex to the appellant asking it whether it would be interested in supplying various equipments including synthesis gas compressors, process air compressors, refrigeration compressors and CO2 compressors for fertilizer project.	None
By another fax dated 5.4.1991, the respondent asked the appellant to send quotation to be followed by a formal bid for synthesis gas compressors and CO2 compressors.	None
The representatives of the two parties met and discussed the technical details in regard to performance of the synthesis gas compressors.	None
Thereafter, the appellant gave its comments modifications to the terms and conditions of the respondent.	None
In June 1991, further negotiations and discussions took place between the parties.	None
At that stage, the respondent gave two letters to the appellant which were described as letters of intent issued on the letterhead of K.G. Khosla Compressors Ltd.	None
These letters also contained terms relating to price, manner of making payment of price, opening of letter of guarantee, date for delivery and consequences of not opening letter of credit by the stipulated date.	None
On receipt of the letters of intent, the appellant is said to have made inquiry as to why the same were issued in the name of K.G. Khosla Compressors Ltd. After getting explanation from the respondent, the appellants representative counter signed the same.	None
However, the respondent neither placed any purchase order nor issued confirmation that the letters of intent were issued in the name of K.G. Khosla Compressors Ltd. on its behalf.	None
In December 1991, the respondent informed the appellant that it was not possible to accept the synthesis gas compressors turbine manufactured by the latter.	None
After further correspondence, the appellant indicated its intention to refer the disputes relating to agreement to the International Chamber of Commerce, Paris.	None
Thereupon, the respondent filed suit in the Delhi High Court for grant of a declaration that there was no arbitration agreement between the parties.	None
The respondent also applied for injunction.	None
K.G. Khosla Compressors Ltd. also filed similar suit.	None
A learned Single Judge of the High Court allowed the applications for temporary injunction filed by the respondent and	None
K.G. Khosla Compressors Ltd.	None
The Division Bench of the High Court dismissed the appeals filed by the appellant.	None
While considering the question whether there was an arbitration agreement between the appellant and the respondent, this Court extensively referred to the contents of the letters of intent and observed Clause C of letters of intent provides that the purchase order shall be subject to the General Conditions of Purchase included in the inquiry, as amended by drs comments thereto, Revision 4 dated 10.6.1991.	None
Therefore, the General Conditions of Purchase which contains the arbitration clause, are not made a part of the letters of intent nor are the letters of intent made subject to the General Conditions of Purchase.	None
The letters of intent merely provide that if and when the purchase order is placed, the purchase order will be subject to the General Conditions of Purchase, as modified by Revision 4.	None
Therefore, the point of time at which the General Conditions of Purchase will become applicable, is the point when the purchase order is placed and not earlier.	None
Consequently, Clause 27.4.2 of the General Conditions of Purchase containing the arbitration clause would become applicable and available to the parties only when the purchase order was placed and not earlier.	None
The term purchase order has a specific meaning and connotation.	None
The purchase order is the agreement entered into between Bindal and the prospective supplier as recorded in the purchase order form (prepared in the form of Attachment VII to the General Conditions of Purchase) signed by the parties, including all attachments and annexures thereto and all documents incorporated by reference therein together with any subsequent modifications thereof in writing.	None
Admittedly, no such purchase order was placed by either Bindal or anyone authorised by Bindal.	None
It is also evident from Clause I of the letters of intent that the purchase order was to be issued simultaneously with the letter of credit.	None
Clause M made it clear that the letters of intent were being issued subject to necessary approvals being given by the authorities of the Indian Government.	None
These provisions clearly indicate that the letters of intent were only a step leading to purchase orders and were not, by themselves, purchase orders.	None
Therefore, issue of the letters of intent by kgk, assuming that it was done on behalf of Bindal, did not mean that the General Conditions of Purchase which contains the provision for arbitration became a part of the letters of intent or became enforceable.	None
It is now well settled that a letter of intent merely indicates a partys intention to enter into a contract with the other party in future.	None
A letter of intent is not intended to bind either party ultimately to enter into any contract.	None
This Court while considering the nature of a letter of intent, observed thus in Rajasthan Coop.	None
Dairy Federation Ltd. v. Maha Laxmi Mingrate Marketing Service (P) Ltd., (SCC p. 408, para 7)	None
The letter of intent merely expressed an intention to enter into a contract.	None
There was no binding legal relationship between the appellant and Respondent 1 at this stage and the appellant was entitled to look at the totality of circumstances in deciding whether to enter into a binding contract with Respondent 1 or not.	None
It is no doubt true that a letter of intent may be construed as a letter of acceptance if such intention is evident from its terms.	None
It is not uncommon in contracts involving detailed procedure, in order to save time, to issue a letter of intent communicating the acceptance of the offer and asking the contractor to start the work with a stipulation that the detailed contract would be drawn up later.	None
If such a letter is issued to the contractor, though it may be termed as a letter of intent, it may amount to acceptance of the offer resulting in a concluded contract between the parties.	None
But the question whether the letter of intent is merely an expression of an intention to place an order in future or whether it is a final acceptance of the offer thereby leading to a contract, is a matter that has to be decided with reference to the terms of the letter.	None
Chitty on Contracts (para 2.115 in Vol. 1, 28th Edn.) observes that where parties to a transaction exchanged letters of intent, the terms of such letters may, of course, negative contractual intention but, on the other hand, where the language does not negative contractual intention, it is open to the Courts to hold that the parties are bound by the document and the Courts will, in particular, be inclined to do so where the parties have acted on the document for a long period of time or have expended considerable sums of money in reliance on it.	None
Be that as it may.	None
A carful reading of the above noted judgment shows that the letters of intent issued on behalf of the respondent were never intended to be treated as a binding contract between the parties.	None
There was no indication in the letters of intent about acceptance of the offer made by the appellant.	None
Therefore, this Court held that no agreement was executed between the parties for purchase of the goods.	None
Reverting to the present case, we find that the bid given by the respondent was unequivocally accepted by the competent authority and the letter of acceptance was issued for and on behalf of the Governor by treating it to be a contract.	Reasoning
Thus, there was substantial compliance of Article 299 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The execution of formal agreement was optional and was not sine qua non for supply of the goods by the respondent.	Reasoning
In our view, if the acceptance letter is read along with other documents in the light of the conduct of the parties, it becomes clear that an agreement was executed between the competent authority and the respondent.	None
The next point which merits consideration is whether the arbitration clause contained in the tender form was a part of the contract and the respondent could invoke the same for determination of the damages allegedly suffered by it on account of failure of appellant No.3 to place order for supply of Zinc Sulphate.	None
In this context, it is necessary to bear in mind that tender of the respondent was accepted by the competent authority subject to the terms and conditions specified in the tender notice and the acceptance letter.	None
In the schedule appended to the acceptance letter, it was clearly mentioned that the price shall remain firm till the completion of supply and the contract will be exclusively governed by the terms and conditions mentioned in the acceptance letter, tender form and the agreement forms.	None
This shows that the terms and conditions mentioned in the tender form were treated as part of the contract for supply of 200 metric tonnes Zinc Sulphate by the respondent to appellant No.3.	None
Clause 16 of the tender form provided for reference of any dispute arising out of or concerning the agreement to the arbitration of an Arbitrator nominated by appellant No.2 and an Arbitrator nominated by the respondent.	None
Therefore, the respondent was entitled to invoke the arbitration clause and the trial Court did not commit any jurisdictional error by entertaining the petition filed by the respondent under Section 20 of the Act.	None
In Smita Conductors Ltd. v.Euro Alloys Ltd. (supra), this Court referred to Article II Part 2 of the New York Convention, which is pari materia to Section 7 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (for short, the 1996 Act) and observed What needs to be understood in this context is that the agreement to submit to arbitration must be in writing.	None
What is an agreement in writing is explained by Para 2 of Article II.	None
If we break down Para 2 into elementary parts, it consists of four aspects.	None
It includes an arbitral Clause (1) in a contract containing an arbitration clause signed by the parties, (2) an arbitration agreement signed by the parties, (3) an arbitral clause in a contract contained in exchange of letters or telegrams, and (4) an arbitral agreement contained in exchange of letters or telegrams.	None
If an arbitration clause falls in any one of these four categories, it must be treated as an agreement in writing.	None
In Nimet Resources Inc. v.Essar Steels Ltd. (supra), the Court observed as under If the contract is in writing and the reference is made to a document containing arbitration clause as part of the transaction , which would mean that the arbitration agreement is part of the contract.	None
Therefore, in a matter where there has been some transaction between the parties and the existence of the arbitration agreement is in challenge, the proper course for the parties is to thrash out such question under Section 16 of the Act and not under Section 11 of the Act.	None
A somewhat similar question was considered in UNISSI (India) (P) Ltd. v. Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (supra).	None
The facts of that case were that in response to the tender floated by the respondent for purchase of pulse oxymeters, the appellant gave its bid.	None
The respondent accepted the bid and placed the purchase orders.	None
The appellants supplied the equipments, which were accepted by the respondent sometime in January 2001.	None
After two years, technical committee of the respondent disapproved the purchase and installation of the equipments.	None
The appellant filed an application under Section 11(4)(a) of the 1996 Act for issue of a direction to the respondent to appoint an Arbitrator.	None
The Additional District Judge, Chandigarh held that the question of appointing an Arbitrator under the 1996 Act does not arise because no agreement had been executed between the parties.	None
This Court entertained the appeal, set aside the order of the Additional District Judge and observed Keeping the aforesaid principles, as quoted hereinabove, in the aforesaid decisions of this Court in mind, in fact what constitutes an arbitration agreement between the parties, we have to examine whether there exists an arbitration agreement between the parties or not in the facts and circumstances of the case.	None
Let us, therefore, consider the gist of the facts involved in this case.	None
Tender Inquiry No. 2PGI OGL/2K/6281 dated 21.12.2000 for purchase of pulse oxymeters was floated by PGI.	None
It is an admitted position that the appellant submitted their tender vide their Offer No. UIPL/331177/0001 dated 15.1.2001.	None
The tender of the appellant was accepted by PGI vide their Letter No. PGI P61/02/477/1193651 dated 29.9.2002 for supplying fortyone pulse oxymeters to their different departments.	None
The tender documents themselves contain an arbitration clause and by reason of acceptance of the tender of the appellant by PGI, it must be held that there was a valid arbitration agreement between the parties.	None
The appellant supplied fortyone pulse oxymeters and the receipt thereof was duly acknowledged on behalf of PGI on the delivery challans.	None
The service installation reports of the aforesaid machines were duly signed on behalf of PGI.	None
In the letters issued by PGI, there was an apparent acknowledgement of supply of the aforesaid meters by the appellant and also reference to the aforementioned tender inquiry number.	None
In view of the aforesaid facts and the correspondences between the parties, particularly the tender offer made by the appellant dated 15.1.2001 and supply order of PGI dated 29.9.2002, and, in our view, to constitute an arbitration agreement between the parties and the action taken on behalf of the appellant and in view of Section 7 of the Act and considering the principles laid down by the aforesaid two decisions of this Court, as noted hereinearlier, we are of the view that the arbitration agreement did exist and therefore the matter should be referred to an Arbitrator for decision.	None
We shall now consider the remaining issues.	None
The appellants case is that the Arbitrator acted in violation of the rules of natural justice inasmuch as he refused the prayer for adjournment despite the fact that the appeal filed against the trial Courts order dated 28.3.1989 was pending before the High Court.	Facts
Another point made by the appellants is that even though the award passed by the Arbitrator was vitiated by patent error of law, the trial Court overruled the objections filed on their behalf and the High Court casually approved the judgment of the trial Court.	None
It is borne out from the record that at one stage, the Arbitrator accepted the request made by the representative of appellant No. 3 and adjourned the proceedings on the premise that the appeal filed against order dated 28.3.1989 was pending before the High Court.	None
However, as the appellants could not persuade the High Court to stay the operation of order dated 28.3.1989, the Arbitrator had every reason to proceed with the matter and pass the award.	None
Since the appellants did not bother to participate in the arbitration proceedings despite the fact that the High Court did not grant stay, they are to blame themselves for the ex parte award.	None
In any case, the appellants cannot complain that they were denied reasonable opportunity of hearing.	None
However, we find merit in the submission of learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellants that the award of the Arbitrator was vitiated by an error apparent and reasons assigned by the trial Court and the High Court for refusing to annul the same are legally unsustainable.	None
A reading of the award shows that after adverting to the claim made by the respondent and the proceedings held by him on various dates, the Arbitrator referred to the affidavit of Shri A.K. Saigal, Managing Director of the respondent and passed the award without assigning any reason whatsoever and without even recording a finding that the respondent had suffered loss damages on account of the failure of appellant No.3 to place supply order in furtherance of the acceptance letter dated 16.11.1985.	Reasoning
The casual manner in which the Arbitrator decided the dispute is evident from paragraph 10 of the Award, which is extracted below I have heard the learned Counsel for the claimant and the representatives of the opposite party	Reasoning
No. 3 at length and carefully perused the records and I am of the certain opinion that the claimant is entitled to receive Rs.	Reasoning
23,56,500/ from the opposite party Nos. 1 and 2 which said amount also comprises of Rs. 12,300/ as cost of these proceedings details whereof are given hereunderAWARDThe claim of the claimant is allowed to the extent of Rs.	Reasoning
23,44,200/ with interest thereon at the rate of 6 per annum with effect from the date of this award till the date of payment or the decree which is earlier.	Reasoning
The claimant is also awarded Rs. 12,300/ being the cost of this arbitration as per details given below(a)Cost of nonjudicial stamp for awardRs.	Reasoning
6,500/(b)Arbitration fee paid by the claimantRs.	Reasoning
2,800/(c)Typing and office expenses for arbitration paid by the claimantRs.	Reasoning
500/(d)Cost awarded to the claimant on account of Counsel feeRs.	Reasoning
2,500/TotalRs.	None
12,300/	None
In our view, the Arbitrator was duty bound to examine the tenability of the claim made by the respondent under different heads and decide the same by assigning some reasons, howsoever briefly.	None
His failure to do so constituted a valid ground for setting aside the award and the trial Court committed a serious error by making the award Rule of the Court.	Reasoning
Unfortunately, the High Court also overlooked this lacuna in the award and approved the judgment of the trial Court.	Reasoning
In RaipurDevelopment Authority Ors.	Reasoning
v. M s. Chokhamal Contractors Ors., (1989) 2 SCC 721 ( this was a case under the Arbitration Act, 1940), a Constitution Bench of this Court considered the question whether the Arbitrator is required to give reasons and held as under We do appreciate the contention, urged on behalf of the parties who contend that it should be made obligatory on the part of the Arbitrator to give reasons for the award, that there is no justification to leave the small area covered by the law of arbitration out of the general rule that the decision of every judicial and quasijudicial body should be supported by reasons.	Reasoning
But at the same time it has to be borne in mind that what applies generally to settlement of disputes by authorities governed by public law need not be extended to all cases arising under private law such as those arising under the law of arbitration which is intended for settlement of private disputes The trappings of a body which discharges judicial functions and is required to act in accordance with law with their concomitant obligations for reasoned decisions, are not attracted to a private adjudication of the nature of arbitration as the latter, as we have noticed earlier, is not supposed to exert the States sovereign judicial power.	Reasoning
But arbitral awards in disputes to which the State and its instrumentalities are parties affect public interest and the matter of the manner in which Government and its instrumentalities allow their interest to be affected by such arbitral adjudications involve larger questions of policy and public interest.	Reasoning
Government and its instrumentalities cannot simply allow large financial interests of the State to be prejudicially affected by nonreviewable except in the limited way allowed by the statute nonspeaking arbitral awards.	Reasoning
Indeed, this branch of the system of dispute resolution has, of late, acquired a certain degree of notoriety by the manner in which in many cases the financial interests of Government have come to suffer by awards which have raised eyebrows by doubts as to their rectitude and propriety.	Reasoning
It will not be justifiable for Governments or their instrumentalities to enter into arbitration agreements which do not expressly stipulate the rendering of reasoned and speaking awards.	Reasoning
Governments and their instrumentalities should, as a matter of policy and public interest if not as a compulsion of law ensure that wherever they enter into agreements for resolution of disputes by resort to private arbitrations, the requirement of speaking awards is expressly stipulated and ensured.	Reasoning
The same view was reiterated in Tamil Nadu Electricity Board v. Bridge Tunnel Constructions, II (1997)	None
CLT 149 (SC)(1997) 4 SCC 121 , and Punjab SEB v. Punjab PreStressed Concrete Works (supra).	None
In the second judgment, the Court referred to some of the earlier judgments and observed After hearing Counsel on both sides, we are of the view that the award is liable to be set aside because when it is a nonspeaking one, it is not known whether any part of the award made by the Arbitrator related to Claim I.	None
In our view, the price of the poles was firm and not liable to be increased.	None
The fact that the delivery schedule was changed cannot be a ground to get over the clause prohibiting increase in the price of the poles.	None
Once Claim I is not tenable, the award has to be set aside inasmuch as it is not possible to say that the award did not relate to Claim I.	None
This is a sufficient reason for setting aside the award and remitting the matter back to the Arbitrator.	None
In the result, the appeal is partly allowed.	Decision
The impugned judgment as also judgment dated 25.11.2004 of the trial Court are set aside and the award of the Arbitrator is quashed.	Decision
The Arbitrator shall now decide the dispute afresh after giving reasonable opportunity of hearing to the parties which shall necessarily include an opportunity to adduce oral and documentary evidence.25.If the Arbitrator who passed award dated 17.11.1989 is not available, then the parties may move the trial Court, which shall give an opportunity to them to nominate their respective Arbitrators within a specified time.	Decision
If the parties fail to nominate their Arbitrators, then the Court may appoint an Arbitrator who shall pass an award after giving opportunity to the parties in terms of the preceding paragraph.	Decision
