 Leave granted.	None
2.	None
This appeal is directed against the impugned judgment and order dated 24.08.2016, passed by the High Court of Rajasthan, Jaipur in S.B. Crl.	Issue
Misc.	Issue
Bail Application No. 5858 of 2016, whereby the High Court has granted the bail to the Respondent No. 2 (Accused A1) and Respondent No. 3 (Accused A2).	Issue
3.	None
According to the prosecution, the accused used to evetease the sister of the defacto complainant (appellant herein).	Facts
Subsequently, brotherinlaw of the complainant deceased tried to intervene in the matter and warned the accused persons to stay away from his sisterinlaw and other family members.	Facts
It is alleged that because of the aforesaid intervention by the deceased, the accused harbored enmity against him.	Facts
Further it is alleged that the accused persons called the deceased to an isolated place and killed him.	Facts
A complaint was registered on 16.09.2014 before the jurisdictional police regarding the disappearance of the deceased.	Facts
On the basis of the aforesaid complaint an FIR being Crime No. 273/2014 was registered under Sections 363 and 365 of IPC.	Facts
After the recovery of the dead body of the deceased, Section 302 was also added.	Facts
During the investigation, the involvement of the present accused is alleged to have been revealed.	Facts
After completion of the investigation, I.O. has filed a chargesheet No. 20140334/2014 dated 30.11.2014 against the respondent accused under Section 302 and 201 of IPC and the trial is pending in Session Case No. 03/2015 (11/2015).	Facts
4.	None
The accusedrespondents herein had filed a bail application before the High Court of Rajasthan at Jaipur Bench, Jaipur being SBCR Misc.	Facts
Bail Application No. 5858 of 2016.	Facts
The High Court by the impugned order has enlarged the accusedrespondents on bail.	Facts
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court granting the regular bail to the accusedrespondents, the defacto complainant (appellant herein) is in appeal before this Court.	Facts
5.	None
At the outset, the learned counsel for the appellant has submitted that the allegations are serious and the accusedrespondents should not be set at liberty as the trial is pending.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is brought to our notice that as many as 16 witnesses have already been examined and 15 more are left.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel for the appellant, there is threat to the life of the witness and possibility of tampering of evidence cannot be ruled out.	Arguments of Petitioner
6.	None
On the other hand the learned counsel for the accusedrespondents submits that there is no requirement of cancelling the bail of the accusedrespondents herein, rather the trial may be expedited.	Arguments of Respondent
7.	None
Having heard learned counsel for both the parties and perusing the material available on record, we are of the opinion that the allegations are very serious in nature and the apprehension, expressed by the learned counsel for the appellant herein, that the accused may misuse the freedom and try to subvert the prosecution and threaten the witnesses and the family members of the complainant cannot be lightly brushed aside.	Reasoning
The High Court has granted the bail to the accused entirely relying on the fact that the present case is based on the circumstantial evidence.	Reasoning
At this stage, we do not wish to express any opinion on the aforesaid aspect lest any remark made in the order might cause prejudice to either the accused or the prosecution in the trial.	Reasoning
In facts and circumstances of this case, we feel that grant of bail to the accused at this stage would not be in the interest of justice.	Reasoning
8.	None
Accordingly, the order passed by the High Court is setaside and appeal is allowed.	Decision
9.	None
In view of the above, respondent no. 2 and 3 are directed to surrender and be taken into the custody.	Decision
