 F. Nariman, J. Delay condoned in filing the special leave petitions.	None
Leave granted in SLP (C) Nos. 36578/2013, 36579/2013, 36581/2013, 37831/2013, 37833/2013, 37834/2013, SLP(C)	None
No.CC No.224/2014), SLP(C)	None
No.CC No.1543/2014), SLP(C)	None
Nos.11094/2014, 11095/2014, 12710/2014, 24620/2014, 11319/2015.	None
This group of appeals arises from the State of Meghalaya and concerns deductions to be made under Sections 80IB and 80IC of the Income Tax Act, 1961.	Facts
Civil Appeal No.7622 of 2014 has been treated as the lead matter in which a judgment of the Gauhati High Court dated 29.5.2013 has been delivered, which has been followed in all the other appeals.4.	Facts
Civil Appeal No.7622 of 2014 concerns itself with two income tax appeals filed by the Revenue against the judgment of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, ITA No.7/2010 arising out of the applicability of Section 80IB, and ITA No.16/2011 arising out of the applicability of Section 80IC.	Facts
For the purpose of these matters, the facts in ITA No.7/2010 are narrated hereinbelow.5.	Facts
The respondent is engaged in the business of manufacture of Steel and Ferro Silicon.	Facts
On 9.10.2014, the Respondent submitted its return of income for the year 20042005 disclosing an income of Rs.2,06,970/ after claiming deduction under Section 80IB of the Income Tax Act on the profits and gains of business of the respondent?s industrial undertaking.	Facts
The respondent had received the following amounts on account of subsidiesTransport subsidyRs.2,64,94,817.00Interest subsidyRs.2,14,569.00Power subsidyRs.7,00,000.00TotalRs.2,74,09,386.006.	Facts
The Assessing Officer, in the assessment order dated 7.12.2006, held that the amounts received by the assessee as subsidies were revenue receipts and did not qualify for deduction under Section 80IB(4) of the Act and, accordingly, the respondent?s claim for deduction of an amount of Rs.2,74,09,386/ on account of the three subsidies aforementioned were disallowed.	Facts
The respondentassessee preferred an appeal before the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals), Guwahati, who, vide his order dated 8.3.2007, dismissed the appeal of the respondent.	Facts
Aggrieved by the aforesaid order, the respondent preferred an appeal before the ITAT which, by its order dated 19.3.2010, allowed the appeal of the respondent.	Facts
The Revenue carried the matter thereafter to the High Court, under Section 260A of the Act, which resulted in the impugned judgment dated 29.5.2013, which decided the matter against the Revenue.	Facts
Revenue is therefore before us in appeal against this judgment.	Facts
Shri Radhakrishnan, learned senior advocate appearing on behalf of the Revenue, argued before us that any amount received by way of subsidy was an amount whose source was the Government and not the business of the assessee.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further argued that there is a world of difference between the expression profits and gains ?derived from?	Arguments of Petitioner
any business, and profits ?attributable to?	Arguments of Petitioner
any business, and that since the section speaks of profits and gains ?derived from?	Arguments of Petitioner
any business, such profits and gains must have a close and direct nexus with the business of the assessee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Subsidies that are allowed to the assessee have no close and direct nexus with the business of the assessee but have a close and direct nexus with grants from the Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
This being the case, according to him, the respondent did not qualify for deductions under Sections 80IB and 80IC of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the course of his lengthy submissions, he made reference to a number of judgments including the judgment reported as Liberty India v. Commissioner of Income Tax reported in 2009 (9) SCC 328 , which has been followed by the Himachal Pradesh High Court in Supriya Gill v. CIT (2010) 193 Taxman 12 (Himachal Pradesh).	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the aforesaid judgment of the Himachal Pradesh High Court has taken a diametrically opposite view to the judgment of the Gauhati High Court, impugned in the present appeals, and deserves to be followed, as it, in turn, has followed Liberty India?s judgment and another Supreme Court judgment reported as CIT v. Sterling Foods, 237 ITR 579 (1999).	Arguments of Petitioner
He also relied upon Sections 80A and 80AB in order to demonstrate the scheme of deductions allowable under PartVIA of the Income Tax Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also referred us to Sections 56 and 57 (iii) of the Act to buttress his submission that subsidies being in the nature of ?	Arguments of Petitioner
income from other sources?	Arguments of Petitioner
could not be allowed to be deducted from profits and gains of business, which fell under a different subheading in Section 14 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, there is one interpretation and one interpretation alone of Sections 80IB and 80IC, which cannot be deviated from with reference to any socalled object of the said sections.	None
Countering these submissions, Shri P. Chidambaram Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the assessee, referred to the Budget Speech of the Minister of Finance for 19992000 to buttress his submission that the idea of giving these subsidies was to give a 10 year tax holiday to those who come from outside Meghalaya to set up industries in that State, which is a backward area.	Arguments of Respondent
He referred to several judgments, including the judgment reported in Jai Bhagwan Oil and Flour Mills v. Union of India and Others (2009) 14 SCC 63 and Sahney Steel and Press Works Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax, A.P.  I, Hyderabad, (1997) 7 SCC 764 to buttress his submission that subsidies were given only in order that items which would go into the cost of manufacture of the products made by the respondent should be reduced, as these subsidies were reimbursement for either the entire or partial costs incurred by the respondent towards transporting raw materials to its factory and transporting its finished products to dealers, who then sell the finished products.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, power subsidy, interest subsidy and insurance subsidy were also reimbursed, either wholly or partially, power being a necessary element of the cost of manufacture of the respondent?s products, and insurance subsidy being necessary to defray costs for both manufacture and sale of the said products.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, interest subsidy would also go towards reducing the interest element relatable to cost, and therefore all four subsidies being directly relatable to cost of manufacture and or sale would therefore necessarily fall within the language of Sections 80IB and 80IC, as they are components of cost of running a business from which profits and gains are derived.	Arguments of Respondent
He sought to distinguish the judgments cited by Shri Radhakrishnan, in particular the judgment of this Court in Liberty India, on the ground that the said judgment did not deal with a subsidy relatable to cost of manufacture but dealt with a DEPB drawback scheme, which related to export of goods and not manufacture of goods, thereby rendering the said decision inapplicable to the facts of the present case.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri S. Ganesh, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of some of the respondentassessees, reiterated the submissions made by Shri P. Chidambaram and added that as all the subsidies went towards cost of manufacture or sale of the products of the respondent, such subsidies being amounts of cost which were actually incurred by the respondent and thereafter reimbursed by the State, the principle of netting off recognized in several decisions of this Court ought to be applied, and on application of the said principle, it is clear that the subsidy received by the respondent was only to depress cost of manufacture and or sale and would therefore be ?derived from?	Arguments of Respondent
profits and gains made from the business of the assessee.	Arguments of Respondent
He also relied upon a judgment of the Calcutta High Court dated 15.1.2015, in C.I.T. v. Cement Manufacturing Company Limited, which has followed the Gauhati High Court, and a judgment of the Delhi High Court in CIT v. Dharampal Premchand Ltd., 317 ITR 353.	Arguments of Respondent
We have heard learned counsel for the parties.	None
Before embarking on a discussion of the relevant case law, we think it is necessary to set out Sections 80IB and 80IC insofar as they are relevant for the determination of the present case. ?	None
80IB Deduction in respect of profits and gains from certain industrial undertakings other than infrastructure development undertakings(1) Where the gross total income of an assessee includes any profits and gains derived from any business referred to in subsections (3) to (11), (11A) and (11B) (such business being hereinafter referred to as the eligible business), there shall, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of this section, be allowed, in computing the total income of the assessee, a deduction from such profits and gains of an amount equal to such percentage and for such number of assessment years as specified in this section.(2)	None
This section applies to any industrial undertaking which fulfils all the following conditions, namely(i) it is not formed by splitting up, or the reconstruction, of a business already in existenceProvided that this condition shall not apply in respect of an industrial undertaking which is formed as a result of the reestablishment, reconstruction or revival by the assessee of the business of any such industrial undertaking as is referred to in section 33B, in the circumstances and within the period specified in that section(ii) it is not formed by the transfer to a new business of machinery or plant previously used for any purpose(iii) it manufactures or produces any article or thing, not being any article or thing specified in the list in the Eleventh Schedule, or operates one or more cold storage plant or plants, in any part of IndiaProvided that the condition in this clause shall, in relation to a small scale industrial undertaking or an industrial undertaking referred to in subsection (4) shall apply as if the words not being any article or thing specified in the list in the Eleventh Schedule had been omitted.	None
Explanation 1 For the purposes of clause (ii), any machinery or plant which was used outside India by any person other than the assessee shall not be regarded as machinery or plant previously used for any purpose, if the following conditions are fulfilled, namely(a) such machinery or plant was not, at any time previous to the date of the installation by the assessee, used in India(b) such machinery or plant is imported into India from any country outside India and(c)	None
no deduction on account of depreciation in respect of such machinery or plant has been allowed or is allowable under the provisions of this Act in computing the total income of any person for any period prior to the date of the installation of the machinery or plant by the assessee.	None
Explanation 2 Where in the case of an industrial undertaking, any machinery or plant or any part thereof previously used for any purpose is transferred to a new business and the total value of the machinery or plant or part so transferred does not exceed twenty per cent of the total value of the machinery or plant used in the business, then, for the purposes of clause (ii) of this subsection, the condition specified therein shall be deemed to have been complied with(iv) in a case where the industrial undertaking manufactures or produces articles or things, the undertaking employs ten or more workers in a manufacturing process carried on with the aid of power, or employs twenty or more workers in a manufacturing process carried on without the aid of power.(4)	None
The amount of deduction in the case of an industrial undertaking in an industrially backward State specified in the Eighth Schedule shall be hundred per cent of the profits and gains derived from such industrial undertaking for five assessment years beginning with the initial assessment year and thereafter twentyfive per cent (or thirty per cent where the assessee is a company) of the profits and gains derived from such industrial undertakingProvided that the total period of deduction does not exceed ten consecutive assessment years (or twelve consecutive assessment years where the assessee is a cooperative society) subject to fulfillment of the condition that it begins to manufacture or produce articles or things or to operate its cold storage plant or plants during the period beginning on the 1st day of April, 1993 and ending on the 31st day of March, 2004Provided further that in the case of such industries in the NorthEastern Region, as may be notified by the Central Government, the amount of deduction shall be hundred per cent of profits and gains for a period of ten assessment years, and the total period of deduction shall in such a case not exceed ten assessment years.	None
Provided also that no deduction under this subsection shall be allowed for the assessment year beginning on the 1st day of April, 2004 or any subsequent year to any undertaking or enterprise referred to in subsection (2) of section 80IC.Provided also that in the case of an industrial undertaking in the State of Jammu and Kashmir, the provisions of the first proviso shall have effect as if for the figures, letters and words 31st day of March, 2004, the figures, letters and words 31st day of March, 2012 had been substitutedProvided also that no deduction under this subsection shall be allowed to an industrial undertaking in the State of Jammu and Kashmir which is engaged in the manufacture or production of any article or thing specified in Part C of the Thirteenth Schedule.??80IC	None
Special provisions in respect of certain undertakings or enterprises in certain special category States(1) Where the gross total income of an assessee includes any profits and gains derived by an undertaking or an enterprise from any business referred to in subsection (2), there shall, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of this section, be allowed, in computing the total income of the assessee, a deduction from such profits and gains, as specified in subsection (3).?	None
There is no dispute between the parties that the businesses referred to in Section 80IB are businesses which are eligible businesses under both the aforesaid Sections.	Reasoning
The parties have only locked horns on the meaning of the expression ?	Reasoning
any profits and gains derived from any business?.	None
The aforesaid provisions were inserted by the Finance Act 1999 with effect from 1.4.2000.	None
The Finance Minister in his budget speech for the year 19992000 spoke about industrial development in the North Eastern Region as follows ?	None
Mr. Speaker, Sir, I am conscious of the fact that, despite all our announcements, the industrial development in North Eastern Region has not come up to our expectations.	None
To give industrialisation a fillip in this area of the country, I propose a 10 year tax holiday for all industries set up in Growth Centres, Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporations, and for other specified industries, in the North Eastern Region.	None
I would urge the industrial entrepreneurs from this part of the country to seize the opportunity and set up modern, high value added manufacturing units in the region.?	None
The reference to the 10 year tax holiday for the industries set up in the North Eastern Region is an obvious reference to the second proviso to subsection (4) of Section 80IB set out hereinabove.	None
The speech of a Minister is relevant insofar it gives the background for the introduction of a particular provision in the Income Tax Act.	None
It is not determinative of the construction of the said provision, but gives the reader an idea as to what was in the Minister?s mind when he sought to introduce the said provision.	None
As an external aid to construction, this Court has, in K.P. Varghese v. Income Tax Officer, Ernakulam and Anr., (1982) 1	None
SCR 629 , referring to a Minister?s speech piloting a Finance Bill, stated as under ?	None
Now it is true that the speeches made by the Members of the Legislature on the floor of the House when a Bill for enacting a statutory provision is being debated are inadmissible for the purpose of interpreting the statutory provision but the speech made by the Mover of the Bill explaining the reason for the introduction of the Bill can certainly be referred to for the purpose of ascertaining the mischief sought to be remedied by the legislation and the object and purpose for which the legislation is enacted.	None
This is in accord with the recent trend in juristic thought not only in Western countries but also in India that interpretation of a statute being an exercise in the ascertainment of meaning, everything which is logically relevant should be admissible.	None
In fact there are at least three decisions of this Court, one in Loka Shikshana Trust v. Commissioner of IncomeTax 1975 101 ITR 234(SC) the other in Indian Chamber of Commerce v. Commissioner of Incometax 1975 101 ITR 796(SC) and the third in Additional Commissioner of Incometax v. Surat Art Silk Cloth Manufacturers Association 1980 121 ITR 1(SC) where the speech made by the Finance Minister while introducing the exclusionary clause in Section 2 Clause (15) of the Act was relied upon by the Court for the purpose of ascertaining what was the reason for introducing that clause.	None
The speech made by the Finance Minister while moving the amendment introducing Subsection (2) clearly states what were the circumstances in which Subsection (2) came to be passed, what was the mischief for which Section 52 as it then stood did not provide and which was sought to be remedied by the enactment of Subsection (2) and why the enactment of Subsection (2) was found necessary.	None
It is apparent from the speech of the Finance Minister that Subsection(2) was enacted for the purpose of reaching those cases where there was understatement of consideration in respect of the transfer or to put it differently, the actual consideration received for the transfer was considerably more than that declared or shown by the assessee, but which were not covered by Subsection (1) because the transferee was not directly or indirectly connected with the assessee.	None
The object and purpose of Subsection (2), as explicated from the speech of the Finance Minister, was not to strike at honest and bonafide transactions where the consideration for the transfer was correctly disclosed by the assessee but to bring within the net of taxation those transactions where the consideration in respect of the transfer was shown at a lesser figure than that actually received by the assessee, so that they do not escape the charge of tax on capital gains by understatement of the consideration.	None
This was real object and purpose of the enactment of Subsection (2) and the interpretation of this subsection must fall in line with the advancement of that object and purpose.	None
We must therefore accept as the underlying assumption of Subsection (2) that there is understatement of consideration in respect of the transfer and Subsection (2) applies only where the actual consideration received by the assessee is not disclosed and the consideration declared in respect of the transfer is shown at a lesser figure than that actually received.?	None
A series of decisions have made a distinction between ?profit attributable to?	None
and ?profit derived from?	None
a business.	None
In one of the early judgments, namely, Cambay Electric Supply Industrial Company Limited v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Gujarat II, (1978) 2 SCC 644 , this Court had to construe Section 80E of the Income Tax Act, which referred to profits and gains attributable to the business of generation or distribution of electricity.	None
This Court held ?	None
As regards the aspect emerging from the expression attributable to occurring in the phrase profits and gains attributable to the business of the specified industry (here generation and distribution of electricity) on which the learned Solicitor General relied, it will be pertinent to observe that the Legislature has deliberately used the expression attributable to and not the expression derived from.	None
It cannot be disputed that the expression attributable to is certainly wider in import than the expression derived from.	None
Had the expression derived from been used it could have with some force been contended that a balancing charge arising from the sale of old machinery and buildings cannot be regarded as profits and gains derived from the conduct of the business of generation and distribution of electricity.	None
In this connection it may be pointed out that whenever the Legislature wanted to give a restricted meaning in the manner suggested by the learned Solicitor General it has used the expression derived from, as for instance in s. 80J.	None
In our view since the expression of wider import, namely, attributable to? has been used, the Legislature intended to cover receipts from sources other than the actual conduct of the business of generation and distribution of electricity.?	None
(Para 8) In Commissioner Of Income Tax, Karnataka v. Sterling Foods, Mangalore, (1999) 4 SCC 98 , this Court had to decide whether income derived by the assessee by sale of import entitlements on export being made, was profit and gain derived from the respondent?s industrial undertaking under Section 80HH of the Indian Income Tax Act.	None
This Court referred to the judgment in Cambay Electric Supply (supra) and emphasized the difference between the wider expression ?attributable to?	None
as contrasted with ?derived from?.	None
In the course of the judgment, this Court stated that the industrial undertaking itself had to be the source of the profit.	None
The business of the industrial undertaking had directly to yield that profit.	None
Having said this, this Court finally held ?	None
We do not think that the source of the import entitlements can be said to be the industrial undertaking of the assessee.	None
The source of the import entitlements can, in the circumstances, only be said to be the Export Promotion Scheme of the Central Govt.	None
whereunder the export entitlements become available.	None
There must be for the application of the words derived from, a direct nexus between the profits and gains and the industrial undertaking.	None
In the instant case the nexus is not direct but only incidental.	None
The industrial undertaking exports processed sea food.	None
By reason of such export, the Export Promotion Scheme applies.	None
Thereunder, the assessee is entitled to import entitlements, which it can sell.	None
The sale consideration therefrom cannot, in our view, be held to constitute a profit and gain derived from the assessees industrial undertaking.?	None
(Para 13) Similarly, in Pandian Chemicals Limited v Commissioner of Income Tax, 262 ITR 278 , this Court dealt with the claim for a deduction under Section 80HH of the Act.	None
The question before the Court was as to whether interest earned on a deposit made with the Electricity Board for the supply of electricity to the appellant?s industrial undertaking should be treated as income derived from the industrial undertaking under Section 80HH.	None
This Court held that although electricity may be required for the purposes of the industrial undertaking, the deposit required for its supply is a step removed from the business of the industrial undertaking.	None
The derivation of profits on the deposit made with the Electricity Board could not be said to flow directly from the industrial undertaking itself.	None
On this basis, the appeal was decided in favour of Revenue.	None
The sheet anchor of Shri Radhakrishnan?s submissions is the judgment of this Court in Liberty India v. Commissioner of Income Tax, (2009) 9 SCC 328.	None
This was a case referring directly to Section 80IB in which the question was whether DEPB credit or Duty drawback receipt could be said to be in respect of profits and gains derived from an eligible business.	None
This Court first made the distinction between ?attributable to?	None
and ?derived from?	None
stating that the latter expression is narrower in connotation as compared to the former.	None
This court further went on to state that by using the expression ?	None
derived from?	None
Parliament intended to cover sources not beyond the first degree.	None
This Court went on to hold ?	None
34.	None
On an analysis of Sections 80IA and 80IB it becomes clear that any industrial undertaking, which becomes eligible on satisfying subsection(2), would be entitled to deduction under subsection (1) only to the extent of profits derived from such industrial undertaking after specified date(s).	None
Hence, apart from eligibility, subsection (1) purports to restrict the quantum of deduction to a specified percentage of profits.	None
This is the importance of the words derived from industrial undertaking as against profits attributable to industrial undertaking.35.	None
DEPB is an incentive.	None
It is given under Duty Exemption Remission Scheme.	None
Essentially, it is an export incentive.	None
No doubt, the object behind DEPB is to neutralize the incidence of customs duty payment on the import content of export product.	None
This neutralization is provided for by credit to customs duty against export product.	None
Under DEPB, an exporter may apply for credit as percentage of FOB value of exports made in freely convertible currency.	None
Credit is available only against the export product and at rates specified by DGFT for import of raw materials, components etc DEPB credit under the Scheme has to be calculated by taking into account the deemed import content of the export product as per basic customs duty and special additional duty payable on such deemed imports.36.	None
Therefore, in our view, DEPB Duty Drawback are incentives which flow from the Schemes framed by Central Government or from S. 75 of the Customs Act, 1962, hence, incentives profits are not profits derived from the eligible business under Section 80IB.	None
They belong to the category of ancillary profits of such Undertakings.?	None
(Paras 34,35 and 36)	None
An analysis of all the aforesaid decisions cited on behalf of the Revenue becomes necessary at this stage.	None
In the first decision, that is in Cambay Electric Supply Industrial Company Limited v Commissioner of Income Tax, Gujarat II, this Court held that since an expression of wider import had been used, namely ?attributable to?	None
instead of ?derived from?, the legislature intended to cover receipts from sources other than the actual conduct of the business of generation and distribution of electricity.	None
In short, a step removed from the business of the industrial undertaking would also be subsumed within the meaning of the expression ?attributable to?.	None
Since we are directly concerned with the expression ?	None
derived from?, this judgment is relevant only insofar as it makes a distinction between the expression ?	None
derived from?, as being something directly from, as opposed to ?attributable to?, which can be said to include something which is indirect as well.	None
The judgment in Sterling Foods lays down a very important test in order to determine whether profits and gains are derived from business or an industrial undertaking.	None
This Court has stated that there should be a direct nexus between such profits and gains and the industrial undertaking or business.	None
Such nexus cannot be only incidental.	None
It therefore found, on the facts before it, that by reason of an export promotion scheme, an assessee was entitled to import entitlements which it could thereafter sell.	None
Obviously, the sale consideration therefrom could not be said to be directly from profits and gains by the industrial undertaking but only attributable to such industrial undertaking inasmuch as such import entitlements did not relate to manufacture or sale of the products of the undertaking, but related only to an event which was post manufacture namely, export.	None
On an application of the aforesaid test to the facts of the present case, it can be said that as all the four subsidies in the present case are revenue receipts which are reimbursed to the assessee for elements of cost relating to manufacture or sale of their products, there can certainly be said to be a direct nexus between profits and gains of the industrial undertaking or business, and reimbursement of such subsidies.	None
However, Shri Radhakrishnan stressed the fact that the immediate source of the subsidies was the fact that the Government gave them and that, therefore, the immediate source not being from the business of the assessee, the element of directness is missing.	None
We are afraid we cannot agree.	None
What is to be seen for the applicability of Sections 80IB and 80IC is whether the profits and gains are derived from the business.	Issue
So long as profits and gains emanate directly from the business itself, the fact that the immediate source of the subsidies is the Government would make no difference, as it cannot be disputed that the said subsidies are only in order to reimburse, wholly or partially, costs actually incurred by the assessee in the manufacturing and selling of its products.	None
The ?profits and gains?	None
spoken of by Sections 80IB and 80IC have reference to net profit.	None
And net profit can only be calculated by deducting from the sale price of an article all elements of cost which go into manufacturing or selling it.	None
Thus understood, it is clear that profits and gains are derived from the business of the assessee, namely profits arrived at after deducting manufacturing cost and selling costs reimbursed to the assessee by the Government concerned.	None
Similarly, the judgment in Pandian Chemicals Limited v Commissioner of Income Tax is also distinguishable, as interest on a deposit made for supply of electricity is not an element of cost at all, and this being so, is therefore a step removed from the business of the industrial undertaking.	None
The derivation of profits on such a deposit made with the Electricity Board could not therefore be said to flow directly from the industrial undertaking itself, unlike the facts of the present case, in which, as has been held above, all the subsidies aforementioned went towards reimbursement of actual costs of manufacture and sale of the products of the business of the assessee.	None
Liberty India being the fourth judgment in this line also does not help Revenue.	None
What this Court was concerned with was an export incentive, which is very far removed from reimbursement of an element of cost.	None
A DEPB drawback scheme is not related to the business of an industrial undertaking for manufacturing or selling its products.	None
DEPB entitlement arises only when the undertaking goes on to export the said product, that is after it manufactures or produces the same.	None
Pithily put, if there is no export, there is no DEPB entitlement, and therefore its relation to manufacture of a product and or sale within India is not proximate or direct but is one step removed.	None
Also, the object behind DEPB entitlement, as has been held by this Court, is to neutralize the incidence of customs duty payment on the import content of the export product which is provided for by credit to customs duty against the export product.	None
In such a scenario, it cannot be said that such duty exemption scheme is derived from profits and gains made by the industrial undertaking or business itself.	None
The Calcutta High Court in Merino Ply Chemicals Ltd. v. CIT, 209 ITR 508 1994, held that transport subsidies were inseparably connected with the business carried on by the assessee.	None
In that case, the Division Bench held ?	None
We do not find any perversity in the Tribunal?s finding that the scheme of transport subsidies is inseparably connected with the business carried on by the assessee.	None
It is a fact that the assessee was a manufacturer of plywood, it is also a fact that the assessee has its unit in a backward area and is entitled to the benefit of the scheme.	None
Further is the fact that transport expenditure is an incidental expenditure of the assessee?s business and it is that expenditure which the subsidy recoups and that the purpose of the recoupment is to make up possible profit deficit for operating in a backward area.	None
Therefore, it is beyond all manner of doubt that the subsidies were inseparably connected with the profitable conduct of the business and in arriving at such a decision on the facts the Tribunal committed no error.?	None
However, in CIT v. Andaman Timber Industries Ltd., 242 ITR 204 2000, the same High Court arrived at an opposite conclusion in considering whether a deduction was allowable under Section 80HH of the Act in respect of transport subsidy without noticing the aforesaid earlier judgment of a Division Bench of that very court.	None
A Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court in C.I.T. v. Cement Manufacturing Company Limited, by a judgment dated 15.1.2015, distinguished the judgment in CIT v. Andaman Timber Industries Ltd. and followed the impugned judgment of the Gauhati High Court in the present case.	None
In a pithy discussion of the law on the subject, the Calcutta High Court held ?	None
Mr. Bandhyopadhyay, learned Advocate appearing for the appellant, submitted that the impugned judgment is contrary to a judgment of this Court in the case of CIT v. Andaman Timber Industries Ltd. reported in (2000) 242 ITR, 204 wherein this Court held that transport subsidy is not an immediate source and does not have direct nexus with the activity of an industrial undertaking.	None
Therefore, the amount representing such subsidy cannot be treated as profit derived from the industrial undertaking.	None
Mr. Bandhypadhyay submitted that it is not a profit derived from the undertaking.	None
The benefit under section 80IC could not therefore have been granted.	None
He also relied on a judgment of the Supreme court in the case of Liberty India v. Commissioner of Income Tax, reported in (2009) 317 ITR 218 (SC) wherein it was held that subsidy by way of customs duty draw back could not be treated as a profit derived from the industrial undertaking.	None
We have not been impressed by the submissions advanced by Mr. Bandhyopadhyay.	None
The judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Liberty India (supra) was in relation to the subsidy arising out of customs draw back and duty Entitlement Passbook Scheme (DEPB).	None
Both the incentives considered by the Apex Court in the case of Liberty India could be availed after the manufacturing activity was over and exports were made.	None
But, we are concerned in this case with the transport and interest subsidy which has a direct nexus with the manufacturing activity inasmuch as these subsidies go to reduce the cost of production.	None
Therefore, the judgment in the case of Liberty India v. Commissioner of Income Tax has no manner of application.	None
The Supreme Court in the case of Sahney Steel and Press Works Ltd. Others versus Commissioner of Income Tax, reported in 1997 228 ITR at page 257 expressed the following views ?.	None
Similarly, subsidy on power was confined to power consumed for production?.	None
In other words, if power is consumed for any other purpose like setting up the plant and machinery, the incentives will not be given.	None
Refund of sales tax will also be in respect of taxes levied after commencement of production and up to a period of five years from the date of commencement of production.	None
It is difficult to hold these subsidies as anything but operation subsidies.	None
These subsidies were given to encourage setting up of industries in the State of Andhra Pradesh by making the business of production and sale of goods in the State more profitable.?	None
We are of the view that the judgment in Merino Ply Chemicals Ltd. and the recent judgment of the Calcutta High Court have correctly appreciated the legal position.	None
We do not find it necessary to refer in detail to any of the other judgments that have been placed before us.	None
The judgment in Jai Bhagwan case (supra) is helpful on the nature of a transport subsidy scheme, which is described as under ?	None
The object of the Transport Subsidy Scheme is not augmentation of revenue, by levy and collection of tax or duty.	None
The object of the Scheme is to improve trade and commerce between the remote parts of the country with other parts, so as to bring about economic development of remote backward regions.	Reasoning
This was sought to be achieved by the Scheme, by making it feasible and attractive to industrial entrepreneurs to start and run industries in remote parts, by giving them a level playing field so that they could compete with their counterparts in central (nonremote) areas.	Reasoning
The huge transportation cost for getting the raw materials to the industrial unit and finished goods to the existing market outside the state, was making it unviable for industries in remote parts of the country to compete with industries in central areas.	Reasoning
Therefore, industrial units in remote areas were extended the benefit of subsidized transportation.	Reasoning
For industrial units in Assam and other northeastern States, the benefit was given in the form of a subsidy in respect of a percentage of the cost of transportation between a point in central area (Siliguri in West Bengal) and the actual location of the industrial unit in the remote area, so that the industry could become competitive and economically viable.?	Reasoning
(Paras 14 and 15)	None
The decision in Sahney Steel and Press Works Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax, A.P.  I, Hyderabad (1997) 7 SCC 764 , dealt with subsidy received from the State Government in the form of refund of sales tax paid on raw materials, machinery, and finished goods subsidy on power consumed by the industry and exemption from water rate.	Reasoning
It was held that such subsidies were treated as assistance given for the purpose of carrying on the business of the assessee.	Reasoning
We do not find it necessary to further encumber this judgment with the judgments which Shri Ganesh cited on the netting principle.	None
We find it unnecessary to further substantiate the reasoning in our judgment based on the said principle.	None
A Delhi High Court judgment was also cited before us being CIT v. Dharampal Premchand Ltd., 317 ITR 353 from which an SLP preferred in the Supreme Court was dismissed.	Reasoning
This judgment also concerned itself with Section 80IB of the Act, in which it was held that refund of excise duty should not be excluded in arriving at the profit derived from business for the purpose of claiming deduction under Section 80IB of the Act.	None
It only remains to consider one further argument by Shri Radhakrishnan.	None
He has argued that as the subsidies that are received by the respondent, would be income from other sources referable to Section 56 of the Income Tax Act, any deduction that is to be made, can only be made from income from other sources and not from profits and gains of business, which is a separate and distinct head as recognised by Section 14 of the Income Tax Act.	None
Shri Radhakrishnan is not correct in his submission that assistance by way of subsidies which are reimbursed on the incurring of costs relatable to a business, are under the head ?income from other sources?, which is a residuary head of income that can be availed only if income does not fall under any of the other four heads of income.	None
Section 28(iii)(b) specifically states that income from cash assistance, by whatever name called, received or receivable by any person against exports under any scheme of the Government of India, will be income chargeable to income tax under the head ?profits and gains of business or profession?.	Reasoning
If cash assistance received or receivable against exports schemes are included as being income under the head ?profits and gains of business or profession?	Reasoning
, it is obvious that subsidies which go to reimbursement of cost in the production of goods of a particular business would also have to be included under the head ?profits and gains of business or profession?, and not under the head ?	Reasoning
income from other sources?.29.	Reasoning
For the reasons given by us, we are of the view that the Gauhati, Calcutta and Delhi High Courts have correctly construed Sections 80IB and 80IC.	Reasoning
The Himachal Pradesh High Court, having wrongly interpreted the judgments in Sterling Foods and Liberty India to arrive at the opposite conclusion, is held to be wrongly decided for the reasons given by us hereinabove.	Reasoning
All the aforesaid appeals are, therefore, dismissed with no order as to costs.	Decision
